Source: Multi-News

ES News Email Enter your email address Please enter an email address Email address is invalid Fill out this field Email address is invalid Email cannot be used. Try another or register with your social account 
 
 A gas consultant who officially changed his name to Bacon Double Cheeseburger today said: "I’ve got no regrets at all". 
 
 Sam Smith, from Muswell Hill, changed his name by deed poll to reflect his love of the food after a night in the pub. 
 
 He told the Standard that the Burger King favourite was the first thing that popped into his head when friends convinced him to do go ahead with the stunt. 
 
 Mr Cheeseburger explained: “It was the culmination of probably too many drinks in the pub where there was a conversation about names. 
 
 “Bacon Double Cheeseburger was pretty much the first thing that came up. Everyone loves bacon don’t they? 
 
 “It was largely the most ridiculous thing we could think of. My friends were quite supportive of anything that makes me look silly, as good friends are.” 
 
 He made an application to the UK Deed Poll Service and, perhaps unfortunately, was drinking with the same friends when the paperwork arrived a few weeks later for him to sign, making the name change official. 
 
 Mr Cheeseburger added that he was lucky his colleagues had a sense of humour. 
 
 The 33-year-old, who said he proudly signs off his work emails as "B D Cheeseburger", said he particularly got a kick out of booking into hotels on business trips. 
 
 My fiancée is fairly reluctant about marrying a Cheeseburger 
 
 He explained: “I spend a lot of time in the Far East and most people out there wouldn’t know Bacon isn’t a standard British first name. But in Europe people think it's pretty weird. 
 
 “What people call me is up to them but that's my name legally speaking now. My mum was furious but my dad thinks it’s hilarious. He’s more than happy to use my new name.” 
 
 But this fiancée Isabella, is less happy and he admitted another name change might be needed ahead of their wedding. 
 
 He said: “My fiancée is fairly reluctant about marrying a Cheeseburger. That’s something we’re discussing a lot. No girl ever dreams of spending her big day marrying a man called Bacon. 
 
 “But I’ve got no regrets at all. It’s been a very fun experience and it’s made a lot of people laugh.” 
 
 His was revealed as one of a host of strange things people have chosen to change their names to in the past year. 
 
 Mr Cheeseburger is one of a record-breaking 85,000 people who changed their name last year. ||||| We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? 
 
 Yes ||||| Have you ever had a really delicious meal and then wished you could find some way to properly honor the glorious food you’ve just consumed? Well, this man in the U.K. apparently once ate a bacon double cheeseburger so delicious that he decided to honor it by literally changing his own name to Bacon Double Cheeseburger. 
 
 That’s dedication. 
 
 This man used to be known as Simon Smith, according to The Times. 
 
 “A name is the least important part of your personality,” the 33-year-old London resident reportedly told the Sunday People. “It’s given to you by someone else.” 
 
 The Brief Newsletter Sign up to receive the top stories you need to know right now. View Sample Sign Up Now 
 
 So how did he choose his new identity? It was simply the first thing he thought of. Last year, he officially changed his name by deed poll. We can only assume that he really, really loves bacon double cheeseburgers and is not a vegetarian trying to be ironic. 
 
 Contact us at editors@time.com. ||||| Simon Smith from north London is one of the many people each year who decide to change their names by deed poll. 
 
 More unusually, he chose to change his name to Bacon Double Cheeseburger. 
 
 You would think a man who uses his name to pay tribute to fast food wouldn't be overly bothered by references to his past moniker. 
 
 You would be wrong. 
 
 London newspaper The Evening Standard interviewed Mr Cheeseburger about his decision to adopt a beefy new moniker (it had a lot to do with being in the pub), but it seems they were paying so much attention to his delicious new name they forgot to check his birth name. 
 
 They mistakenly called him Sam Smith, which according to Mr Cheeseburger, would be a ridiculous name. 
 
 Sorry Sam. 
 
 Perhaps the hassle was worth it though, it looks like he could be going on a beefy tour of Britain's burger restaurants. 
 
 So does his new name cause him problems with work or travel? 
 
 "Surprisingly no," Mr Cheeseburger tells Newsbeat. 
 
 He currently works as a consultant for the oil and gas industry and says: "My work speaks for itself... people keep hiring me." 
 
 It's not Bacon Double Cheeseburger on his CV though. 
 
 "I usually drop that bombshell after the contracts have been signed," he says. 
 
 Despite his hassle-free name change, he does have a warning for anyone who fancies changing their name to Chicken Caesar Salad. 
 
 "On the side of beer bottles it says drink responsibly for a reason, think carefully before you do it." 
 
 Despite all of that, people do still call him Bacon. "My dad included," he adds. 
 
 What is a deed poll? 
 
 Anyone over 18 can start using a new name at any time but to apply for official documents such as a passport or driving licence you'll need a legal document called a deed poll. 
 
 For a fee you can put your name on public record by "enrolling it" at The Royal Courts of Justice. 
 
 Alternatively you can make your own deed poll, but some record-holders will only accept a new name that's been 'enrolled' using the official forms. 
 
 The process is slightly different if you were born in Scotland; you apply to the National Records of Scotland who will charge a recording fee. 
 
 How much does it cost? 
 
 Making your own deed poll is free, but the more widely accepted official method of enrolling your new name at the Royal Courts of Justice costs £36. 
 
 Specialist agencies or solicitors will also charge a fee to make a deed poll for you. 
 
 In Scotland a change of name is subject to a recording fee of £40, but families who are all changing their name together can pay an additional £10 per family member instead of paying the full fee for each person. 
 
 For more stories like this one you can now download the BBC Newsbeat app straight to your device. For iPhone go here. For Android go here.