Source: Multi-News

Sometimes as a photojournalist, I find myself in uncomfortable situations. Such was the case as I photographed Joshua Mitchell at the Reynolds High School graduation ceremony Thursday night. 
 
 Mitchell's brother, Emilio Hoffman, was killed Tuesday morning in a shooting at the school by fellow student Jared Padgett. 
 
 To honor his brother at the ceremony, Mitchell wore Emilio's Reynolds Raiders soccer jersey over his graduation gown. 
 
 I was one of a few photographers who had floor access during the ceremony. Before Mitchell walked the graduation line, I evaluated where I might position myself to best shoot his photo. I noticed that students weren't reacting to the crowd when they received their diplomas, but rather when they walked down a ramp toward assistant principal John Dixon. 
 
 Based on this I opted for the left side of the ramp, but at the diploma exchange I found my view blocked so I quickly moved to the other side as Mitchell made his last handshake. 
 
 It was then that Mitchell turned his back to the crowd, revealing Emilio's number 29, and raised his arms, a diploma and plaque in one hand and his other hand made into a fist. 
 
 The discomfort came for me when he turned back and I could see the emotional intensity in his face. There I was, standing, in front of all the students and the friends and families in the audience, feeling a bit like an intruder in the moment. 
 
 I quickly downloaded my camera cards into my laptop and sent the arms up photo first, feeling like it was THE moment and then followed with several pictures from the ramp walk and Mitchell's hug with Dixon. 
 
 I woke up early this morning, wondering if I had violated Mitchell's moment. Only he can answer that. 
 
 The photo of Mitchell turning back has been very popular on social media, with more than 900 retweets and thousands of Facebook likes. What do you think about the photo? I'd love to hear your thoughts in the comments section below. ||||| Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.