Source: Multi-News

Nearly 530 years after the death of Richard III in battle, Britain’s high court ruled Friday that the king immortalized by Shakespeare as a misshapen, murderous villain is to be buried in Leicester, the city where his skeleton was found beneath a parking lot in 2012. 
 
 The court dismissed a competing campaign by some of the deposed monarch’s distant relations to have him interred in York, in northern England, which they argued had a stronger claim on his affections – and his bones. 
 
 “It is time for Richard III to be given a dignified reburial, and finally laid to rest,” the three justices who heard the case wrote, paving the way for the long-ago ruler to be interred in Leicester Cathedral. 
 
 The cathedral stands a stone’s throw from the site where, working off of old maps and improbable hopes, archaeologists dug in search of the last recorded place where Richard’s body was buried, beneath the floor of a lost medieval church. In an almost miraculous find in September 2012, on one of the few bits of land not built over in downtown Leicester, they unearthed the skeleton of an adult male who had clearly suffered grievous battle wounds. 
 
 DNA and other tests proved that the remains belonged to Richard, the final Plantagenet king and the last English monarch to die in combat. He was killed Aug. 22, 1485, at Bosworth Field, outside Leicester, in a climactic fight that ushered in the long reign of the Tudors, including Henry VIII and Elizabeth I. 
 
 It is time for Richard III to be given a dignified reburial, and finally laid to rest. — British high court 
 
 Almost as soon as the remains were found, however, another battle broke out, over where they ought to be laid to rest. 
 
 A group called the Plantagenet Alliance challenged the decision to rebury Richard in the nearby cathedral, arguing that York would be more appropriate, since he spent much of his childhood and early adult life in and around that city. The group accused the government of failing to consult widely enough before it granted the burial license to Leicester. 
 
 But in what it called a “unique and exceptional” case, the high court Friday upheld the government’s decision. Despite the “trenchant views expressed by rival factions,” the court noted that officials had followed proper protocol regarding discovered remains; that Henry VII, Richard’s successor, had buried him in Leicester; and that the present queen, Elizabeth II, appeared content with the idea of keeping him there. 
 
 He fell here. He's lain here for over 500 years. The cathedral is about 150 meters from the site of discovery. — David Monteith, dean of Leicester Cathedral 
 
 While an appeal of the ruling is technically possible, David Monteith, the dean of Leicester Cathedral, described the court’s judgment as “clear and unequivocal.” 
 
 “He fell here. He’s lain here for over 500 years. The cathedral is about 150 meters from the site of discovery,” Monteith said in a telephone interview. 
 
 Despite Richard’s strong ties to York, “as a king of England in medieval times he spent time all across England,” said Monteith. “He knew the city of York well, but he knew the city of Leicester well. He didn’t leave any will saying [where] he should be buried…. We’re simply doing what the law requires.” 
 
 In a statement, the Plantagenet Alliance expressed disappointment with the ruling but said it had tried its best to "persuade the decision-makers to reconsider public consultation regarding the final resting place of the last Plantagenet king of England." 
 
 Leicester Cathedral has already gone to some expense to prepare for a re-interment, tentatively scheduled for spring of next year. A new tomb will be erected in the heart of the church, replacing the existing memorial marker, and planning is underway on a solemn service befitting a man who was England’s “anointed king.” 
 
 He’s also one of its most controversial. Scholars and amateur historians are bitterly divided over whether Richard was the bloodthirsty tyrant depicted by Shakespeare who had his two young nephews executed in the Tower of London so that he could claim the crown for himself, or an enlightened ruler who instituted lasting legal reforms but whose name was indelibly smeared after his death by Tudor propagandists. 
 
 No matter where he’s buried, that is one debate that will probably never be put to rest. ||||| Descendants of the family of Richard III, the last king of England to die on a battlefield, have lost a legal battle over where his recently discovered remains should be reinterred. 
 
 Three high court judges ruled that the twisted and traumatised skeleton found under a council car park should remain in Leicester, and said it was "time for King Richard III to be given a dignified reburial, and finally laid to rest". 
 
 The judges rejected the claim of distant relatives from the Plantagenet Alliance that justice secretary Chris Grayling was under a legal duty to set up a wide-ranging consultation over the reburial site. 
 
 The alliance, which was set up by the 16th great-nephew of Richard III, who had no direct descendants, favoured reinterment in York Minister, arguing it had been the wish "of the last medieval king of England" who was known as Richard of York. 
 
 His remains, bearing the unmistakable signs of scoliosis and traumatic injury consistent with contemporaneous accounts of his physical stature and nature of death during the 1485 Battle of Bosworth Field, were discovered more than 500 years later in 2012, and confirmed through mitochondrial DNA tests on descendents of his sister, Anne of York. 
 
 Since then "passions have been roused and much ink has been spilt" over his life, death and place of reinterment", said Lady Justice Hallet, sitting with Mr Justice Ouseley and Mr Justice Haddon-Cave. 
 
 They ruled Grayling had acted reasonably and lawfully in consulting with the "sovereign, state and church", and in granting an exhumation licence which allowed the University of Leicester, which led the archeological dig on the site of the Grey Friars Priory in Leicester, to determine Leicester cathedral as the place of reburial. 
 
 Dismissing a claim for wide-ranging public consultation, the judges said there was no "legitimate expectation" that Richard III's "collateral descendants would be consulted after centuries in relation to an exhumed historical figure". Any public consultation was "not capable of sensible limit" as there were potentially millions of collateral descendants of the king. 
 
 There was applause at the city's cathedral on Friday when the Bishop of Leicester, Tim Stevens, read out the result at 10am to a crowd of supporters and media. 
 
 "We are, of course, delighted," he said. "Here in the cathedral, in the diocese, in the city, in the county, we've waited a long time for this." 
 
 He said plans for the reinterment that had been on hold could now progress. 
 
 Nick Rushton, leader of Leicestershire county council, said: "It has been a very undignified time as you must remember this is the body of a man – and a king of England. He deserves to be buried with dignity and honour in Leicester cathedral." 
 
 Wendy Moorhen, deputy chair of the Richard III Society, said while they acknowledged "the sincerity" of the Plantagenet Alliance case, further arguments over the king's final resting place "can only be counterproductive to the solemnity of the reburial". 
 
 But Grayling condemned the alliance's legal action, saying that, while pleased at the judgment, he was "frustrated and angry that the Plantagenet Alliance – a group with tenuous claims to being relatives of Richard III – have taken up so much time and public money". 
 
 "This case, brought by a shell company set up by the alliance to avoid paying legal costs, is an example of exactly why the government is bringing forward a package of reforms to the judicial review process." 
 
 The case had "unique and exceptional features" and the archeological discovery of the mortal remains of a king of England after 500 years "may fairly be described as 'unprecedented'", the judges said. But there were "no public law grounds for the court interfering with the decision in question". 
 
 It is currently unclear whether or not the alliance will seek to appeal. 
 
 Richard III's death marked the end of the middle ages, and he has remained a significant and controversial figure ever since. Tudor propagandists in the 16th century portrayed him in a negative light. Thomas More described him as "little of stature, ill-featured of limbs, crook-backed … hard-favoured of image". 
 
 The Richard III Society, formed in 1924, has since sought to rehabilitate his image as a good and humane man. 
 
 Contemporaneous accounts report his body was found among others slain, a halter was thrown around his neck, his naked body was slung over a horse with head, arms and legs dangling, and he was bought to a church in Leicester and irreverently buried. 
 
 Professor Mark Thompson, the senior pro-vice-chancellor at the University of Leicester, said he was "delighted" at the ruling, not just for the university, but also for the city and the cathedral. 
 
 "This has been a major research project and we were always very clear from the outset that our intention was to reinter the remains in the cathedral," he added. 
 
 The reinterment ceremony will take place next spring.