Source: Multi-News


 
 The CNN Center in Atlanta is the world headquarters of the Cable News Network. (iStock photo) 
 
 On Jan. 9, an operator in Atlanta manning the public contact number for CNN received a phone call. According to a federal arrest affidavit unsealed Monday, the male caller launched into a threat. 
 
 “Fake news. I’m coming to gun you all down. F‑‑‑ you, f‑‑‑ing n‑‑‑‑‑s.” The caller then clicked off. 
 
 Three minutes later, the same caller, dialing from the same number, again rang the CNN line. “I am on my way right now to gun the f‑‑‑in’ CNN cast down. F‑‑‑ you,” the caller said. The operator asked the caller his name. “F‑‑‑ you,” he responded. “I am coming to kill you.” 
 
 Thirty minutes later, the caller again reached the CNN public switchboard. He whispered his threats. “I’m coming for you CNN. I’m smarter than you. More powerful than you. I have more guns than you. More manpower. Your cast is about to get gunned down in a matter of hours.” 
 
 According to federal law enforcement, the man on the other end was Brandon Griesemer of Novi, Mich. 
 
 In an arrest affidavit released Monday, FBI agent Sean Callaghan wrote that Griesemer “made approximately 22 total calls to CNN” between Jan. 9 and Jan. 10. Four of the calls resulted in threats. In the last message, the caller made disparaging remarks about Jewish individuals, before stating: “You are going down. I have a gun and I am coming to Georgia right now to go to the CNN headquarters to f‑‑‑ing gun every single last one of you. I have a team of people. It’s going to be great, man . . . You gotta get prepared for this one, buddy.” 
 
 Court records indicate Griesemer was arrested on a charge of interstate communications with intent to extort, threaten or injure. He made an initial appearance in court on Jan. 19. 
 
 Griesemer is currently free on a $10,000 unsecured bond. 
 
 On Monday night, a man who identified himself as Griesemer’s father told The Washington Post that “this whole thing has been a mistake. He really didn’t mean any of it.” Griesemer’s father added: “He didn’t know what he was saying, the seriousness of it. We’re not even gun owners or anything like that. We don’t have any, neither does he.” 
 
 The father declined to comment further. “More will come out later. Hopefully, this can be settled.” 
 
 The threats were made public less than a week after President Trump unveiled his “Fake News Awards.” The term, trumpeted by the president in his frequent clashes with the press, has become a popular rallying cry among Trump’s base. CNN has been a regular target of the president’s “fake news” attacks; the president has also shared violent images featuring the cable news giant, including pictures of the CNN logo crushed under a shoe and a GIF of the president personally attacking the CNN logo. 
 
 On Monday night, CNN released a statement about the threats. “We take any threats to CNN employees or workplaces, around the world, extremely seriously. This one is no exception. We have been in touch with local and federal law enforcement throughout, and have taken all necessary measures to ensure the safety of our people.” 
 
 Public records indicate Griesemer was born in 1998. 
 
 According to the arrest affidavit, an investigator working for CNN originally traced the threatening calls back to Griesemer. The number allegedly used in the threats traced back to Brandon Griesemer’s father and an affiliated wireless number. 
 
 At one point, the investigator called the number and spoke with someone who identified himself as “Brandon.” The investigator recorded the conversation, then compared the audio with the recordings of the threatening CNN calls. “The voices sounded like the same individual,” the affidavit states. 
 
 This was not the first time Griesemer allegedly made threatening phone calls. 
 
 The arrest affidavit notes that on Sept. 19, an employee of the Islamic Center of Ann Arbor received a phone call. The male caller “made derogatory comments relating to the mosque and Muslims.” Police tracked the number to the Griesemer house. In a phone call with police, Griesemer “stated that he had called the mosque on September 19, and that he was angry at the time of the call.” 
 
 More from Morning Mix: 
 
 Neil Diamond says he has Parkinson’s disease, will retire from touring ||||| ATLANTA (AP) — A Michigan man has been arrested after authorities say he threatened to travel to Atlanta and kill people at CNN headquarters. 
 
 Federal court documents filed in Michigan say 19-year-old Brandon Griesemer of Novi, Michigan, began calling CNN on Jan. 9. He allegedly told a CNN operator, "Fake News. I'm coming to gun you all down." He allegedly made racist and anti-Semitic comments too. Altogether, there were 22 calls from two phones over two days. 
 
 The phone numbers were traced to Griesemer's family. Court documents say Griesemer had earlier made threatening calls to a local mosque. 
 
 An FBI affidavit says Griesemer made interstate threats by phone, in violation of federal law. 
 
 Griesemer, a part-time grocery worker, was arrested, with bail set at $10,000. He is represented by a public defender. ||||| (CNN) Authorities arrested a Michigan man last week after he allegedly called CNN several times, threatening to kill employees at the network's Atlanta, Georgia, headquarters, according to a federal affidavit. 
 
 Brandon Griesemer made 22 calls to CNN on January 9 and January 10 and four calls, which were recorded, contained threats, according to the affidavit, which was unsealed Friday. 
 
 Griesemer, whose age was not given, also made disparaging statements about Jewish people, African-Americans and the network in several calls, the affidavit said. 
 
 He was charged Friday in US District Court with transmitting interstate communications with the intent to extort and threat to injure. He was released Friday on $10,000 bond. 
 
 A family member at Griesemer's home in Novi, Michigan, declined to comment late Monday. 
 
 "We take any threats to CNN employees or workplaces, around the world, extremely seriously. This one is no exception. We have been in touch with local and federal law enforcement throughout, and have taken all necessary measures to ensure the safety of our people," CNN said Monday in a statement. 
 
 Michigan authorities first crossed paths with Griesemer last fall. 
 
 On September 19, a man -- later identified as Griesemer -- called an employee at an Islamic center in Ann Arbor, Michigan, and made derogatory comments about the mosque and Muslims, an FBI agent said in the affidavit. 
 
 Ann Arbor police used an online database to identify Griesemer's father as the phone's owner. 
 
 Two days later, Ann Arbor police contacted Griesemer's mother at the family's home, where Griesemer lived. She told police her son had called the mosque, the affidavit said. Officers told her they wanted to talk to her son. 
 
 In a call to Ann Arbor police that day, Griesemer admitted he called the mosque on September 19 "and that he was angry at the time of the call," the affidavit said. 
 
 CNN received the first threatening call around 3 p.m. on January 9. The call was made to a publicly listed phone number at the Atlanta headquarters from the same cell phone number used to call the Islamic center in Ann Arbor on September 19, the affidavit said. 
 
 It was the first of three threatening calls that day to CNN from that number, according to the affidavit. 
 
 "Fake news. I'm coming to gun you all down," said the caller, who cursed and used an expletive directed at African-Americans, the affidavit said. 
 
 "I am on my way right now to gun the f****** CNN cast down .... I am coming to kill you," the caller said a second call to CNN, according to affidavit. 
 
 On January 9, an investigator employed by CNN searched law enforcement databases for the phone number and discovered it was registered to Griesemer's father, the affidavit said. The investigator learned a second number was associated with the wireless account. 
 
 The investigator called the second phone number and asked to speak to Griesemer's father. The man who picked up identified himself as Brandon, the affidavit said. 
 
 The investigator recorded the conversation with Griesemer and compared the audio to the recorded audio of the threatening calls, the affidavit said. 
 
 The voices sounded like the same person, the affidavit said. 
 
 On January 10, CNN received the fourth call from the same cell phone number used to make the three prior threats, the affidavit said. 
 
 The caller again threatened to come to the Atlanta headquarters to "gun every single last one of you," the affidavit said. 
 
 The CNN investigator collected data from the cell phone used to make the threats. That phone had accessed a cellular tower in Novi, Michigan, the affidavit said. 
 
 Griesemer could face a fine or up to five years in prison if convicted.