Source: Multi-News


 
 PONTIAC, MI -- The mystery of what happened to Pia Farrenkopf may never be entirely solved, but one piece of the puzzle fell into place this week. 
 
 The Oakland County Medical Examiner's Office says it's received confirmation that the remains are the woman, who, estranged from family and friends, appears to have died in the back seat of her Jeep inside the garage of the Pontiac home she owned in early-2009. 
 
 Due to the body's state of decomposition, which authorities described as "mummified," a cause and manner of death has not been established. 
 
 She was discovered on March 5 when a contractor for the bank holding the mortgage on her foreclosed home visited to patch a hole in the roof after neighbors complained squirrels were gaining access. 
 
 Farrenkopf would have been 49 on the day her body was discovered. 
 
 Oakland County sheriff's officials said the house seemed undisturbed and was covered floor to ceiling in black mold. 
 
 Farrenkopf had many of her bills set to be paid automatically from her bank account. Police say a balance of nearly $54,000 slowly dwindled to nothing by March of 2013. 
 
 Relatives of the woman, who had nine sisters and was raised in South Boston, said they tried to reach her over the years by phone but were unable. 
 
 Farrenkopf lived alone, but at some point had a white toy poodle named "Baby" and a cat named "Bungee." Oakland County sheriff's officials said there was no sign of the animals when the body was discovered. 
 
 Until September of 2008 she worked in IT for Alltel, a financial software company that contracted with now-defunct Chrysler financial, according to friend and co-worker Brian Hicks, 38, of Utah. 
 
 She also operated a fitness center called Slender Lady of Waterford, which closed in 2005 after Farrenkopf was sued and her income garnished for not making rent payments that accrued to $101,441. 
 
 The Oakland County Medical Examiner's Office says the remains have been released to Farrenkopf's relatives. 
 
 "We have spent the day making arrangements and getting all paperwork filled out so that we may finally bring Pia home," Farrenkopf's niece wrote in a Facebook post Tuesday. "This has brought some closure for our family, knowing we may finally lay Pia to rest. 
 
 "We may never know what happened to Pia and of course that is something no family ever wants to hear or accept but, we will never stop fighting to find answers and get justice for my aunt." ||||| (Reuters) - A woman whose mummified remains were found in her garage in a Detroit suburb up to five years after her death has been identified through DNA tests, an official said on Friday. 
 
 Pia Farrenkopf had set up her bills to be paid automatically through a bank account, a neighbor cut her grass and her mail was sent to a nearby post office while her body sat for years in the back seat of a vehicle in her Pontiac, Michigan, garage. 
 
 Her body was finally found in March when someone was sent to check on the house, which had fallen into foreclosure after the account ran down and mortgage payments stopped. 
 
 Robert Gerds, administrator for the Oakland County medical examiner’s office, said Farrenkopf’s family was notified Tuesday of the positive identification and her body has been released. 
 
 A cause of death has not been determined, nor when she died, though investigators were able to confirm that she was seen alive as recently as early 2009, Gerds said. 
 
 “This has brought some closure for our family, knowing we may finally lay Pia to rest,” a posting on a Facebook page dedicated to her by a niece said Tuesday. 
 
 Farrenkopf stopped working in 2008 and the last withdrawal from the account was in March 2013, Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard said in March. He said her mail went to a post office, a neighbor cut her lawn, and she had no nearby family. ||||| LATEST HEADLINES 
 
 U-M LBs breakdown: Veteran group leads heart of defense If this group can become one of the best linebacker units in the conference, that will allow... 
 
 MSU LBs breakdown: Harris, Davis, Jones return but uncertainty remains MSU's linebackers in 2014 are what its quarterbacks and running backs were in 2013 — the biggest... 
 
 Ex-Piston Villanueva, now a free agent, looking for right situation 'The past two years in Detroit, it just seems that they went in a different direction, but I just...