Source: Multi-News

BRIT sailor, Lewis Bennett, has admitted killing his wife after their boat sunk on their Caribbean honeymoon. 
 
 The 41-year-old has pleaded guilty to the involuntary manslaughter of Isabella Hellman. 
 
 Facebook 7 Brit Lewis Bennett has admitted killing his wife Isabella 
 
 Colombian estate agent Isabella, 41, disappeared when the couple’s 37ft catamaran sank off Cuba. 
 
 Her body was never found despite a search. 
 
 Bennett, 41, had always denied killing her. 
 
 But the engineer — who lived in Florida with ­Isabella and daughter Emelia, two — admitted involuntary manslaughter in a Miami court tonight. 
 
 7 Hellmann's text messages have revealed that she felt Bennett did not 'respect her any more' 
 
 7 Prosecutors believe the pair had an 'intense argument' before the incident 
 
 Facebook 7 Within 24 hours of her disappearance, Mr Bennett asked for a 'letter of presumed death' so he could settle her estate 
 
 It is understood he has agreed a plea deal sparing him a murder trial. 
 
 Bennett, of Poole, Dorset, faces a maximum eight years in jail when he is sentenced on January 10. 
 
 The Florida court heard he made no effort to find his wife, instead he loaded items onto a life raft after their vessel sunk. 
 
 Prosecutors alleged he murdered Isabella for her estate and sank the boat on May 15. 
 
 He claims she was piloting the boat and he was asleep but woke up to find the vessel damaged and his new wife missing. 
 
 Bennett made a distress call five hours later and was alone when a helicopter crew pulled him from the sea. 
 
 Boca Raton Police 7 Lewis Bennett has been filmed in an emotional bust-up with the family of his wife 
 
 7 Bennett claimed he was sleeping when their boat hit something and when he went to check on Isabella, she was gone 
 
 Facebook 7 Isabella Hellmann was described as 'full of happiness and joy' 
 
 In court documents filed last week police allege Mr Bennett, 41, from Poole, Dorset, killed his wife to end “marital strife” between the couple. 
 
 And now Hellmann's text messages have revealed that she felt Bennett did not "respect her any more" and that she "found an angry person" when she came home. 
 
 Hellmann, 41, also said she was "afraid to get home", The Times reports. 
 
 Court documents detail the text messages, which also read: "Sometimes I can be a pain in the a** and more but you need to change your attitude... you make me crazy shouting, yelling, swearing... YOU ARE PUSHING ME AWAY." 
 
 Months before Ms Hellmann's disappearance, she wrote: "If you don’t like me or love me anymore let us fix this asap because is very pathetic the way you treated me all the time." 
 
 MOST READ IN NEWS Latest MYSTERY SOLVED Girl feared abducted is found safe after dad tells cops he's man in CCTV HARROWING ORDEAL Girl, 10, who got pregnant after being 'raped by brother' gives birth ENERGY CRISIS Just ONE energy drink 'increases risk of heart problems - in 90 minutes' VILE VID ARRESTS Five men arrested over 'sick' Grenfell Tower effigy video as PM slams mob Exclusive CREDIT CRUNCHED Dad on Universal Credit gets NOTHING for 2 months after pay cheque glitch 
 
 Investigators also found he was smuggling rare coins during his rescue, worth £30,000. 
 
 He is serving a seven-month jail service for possession of the loot. 
 
 Explosive police Bodycam footage showed him rowing with his late wife's family as they confronted him over he death. 
 
 Police bodycam footage shows Lewis Bennett clashing with the sister-in-law and mum of tragic Isabella Hellmann 
 
 We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368. You can WhatsApp us on 07810 791 502. We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours. ||||| Image copyright PA/Broward Sheriff's Office Image caption Lewis Bennett was given a seven-month jail sentence for smuggling stolen coins 
 
 A British man who claimed his American wife had disappeared at sea after their catamaran sank off the coast of Cuba has admitted killing her. 
 
 Lewis Bennett and Isabella Hellmann had been married three months when she was reported missing by her husband. 
 
 Detectives later learnt that the boat had been deliberately sunk. Her body has never been found. 
 
 On Monday Bennett, 41, admitted a charge of involuntary manslaughter at a hearing in Miami, Florida. 
 
 The British-Australian dual citizen, from Poole, Dorset, had been due to stand trial in December charged with second degree murder. 
 
 But he pleaded guilty to a reduced charge of unlawful killing without malice after striking a plea deal. 
 
 The couple had been sailing the 37ft (11m) catamaran from Cuba to their home in Delray Beach, Florida, when Bennett reported Ms Hellmann missing in an SOS call on 15 May 2017. 
 
 He claimed their catamaran was sinking and his 41-year-old wife was nowhere to be seen. 
 
 Image copyright US Coast Guard Image caption Bennett reported his wife missing in an SOS call as their catamaran was sinking 
 
 However, the authorities soon suspected that Bennett had killed his wife, who was the mother of his child. 
 
 In the months after her disappearance he asked for her to be declared dead. 
 
 Prosecutors alleged that he was motivated by money, as he would have inherited Ms Hellmann's apartment in Florida and the contents of her bank account. 
 
 During his rescue investigators also found that he had been smuggling stolen antique coins, worth nearly £30,000. 
 
 He had reported the coins as being stolen from a former employer in St Maarten a year earlier. 
 
 Bennett is currently serving a seven-month jail sentence after pleading guilty to transporting the coins. 
 
 He faces a maximum eight-year prison term when he is sentenced over his wife's death next year. ||||| Lewis Bennett pleads guilty to manslaughter of newlywed wife while on honeymoon in Bahamas 
 
 Updated 
 
 An Australian man whose newlywed wife went missing at sea as the couple sailed off to the Bahamas on a belated honeymoon has pleaded guilty to an involuntary manslaughter charge in a US court. 
 
 Key points: Bennett, a mining engineer, had told the FBI and British journalists that he and Ms Hellmann went for a Caribbean cruise 
 
 He is an experienced sailor who received a certification from the Royal Yachting Association in the United Kingdom 
 
 He did not deploy any flares and did not search for Ms Hellmann in the water with either the catamaran or an attached dinghy 
 
 Lewis Bennett, 41, entered the plea at a hearing on Monday in Miami. 
 
 He faces a maximum eight-year prison sentence over the May 2017 disappearance of Isabella Hellmann, his wife of just three months. 
 
 US District Judge Federico Moreno set sentencing for January 10. 
 
 "Although nothing can ever erase the pain and suffering caused by Lewis Bennett's criminal acts, the US Attorney's Office and our law enforcement partners hope that the defendant's admission of guilt is a step toward justice for the victim," US Attorney Ariana Fajardo Orshan said in a statement. 
 
 The guilty plea means Hallmann's family may never know what happened on the night that she went missing. 
 
 Bennett, a mining engineer, had told the FBI and British journalists that he and Hellmann, a South Florida real estate agent, took their 11-metre catamaran, Surf Into Summer, for a Caribbean cruise. They left their infant daughter, Emelia, with her family in Florida. 
 
 As the catamaran passed the Bahamas on the return to Florida, Bennett sent out an emergency radio signal. 
 
 When the Coast Guard found him on a life raft three hours later, he told rescuers he left Hellmann on deck as he retired for the night to their cabin. 
 
 He said he was jolted awake when their craft hit something and that Hellmann was gone when he went outside. 
 
 He said he abandoned the catamaran in a life raft because it was sinking. 
 
 A sworn document signed by Bennett and filed in court stated he could not recall whether he called out for his wife. 
 
 He did not deploy any flares and did not search for Hellmann in the water with either the catamaran or an attached dinghy. 
 
 Nor did Bennet immediately activate any emergency equipment or call for help using his satellite phone. 
 
 It was not until Bennett boarded the life raft that he called for help and reported his wife missing, about 45 minutes after he was awakened. 
 
 Prosecutors said Bennett was an experienced sailor who received a certification from the Royal Yachting Association in the United Kingdom as a "Coastal Skipper". 
 
 The training included instruction on emergency procedures such as man-overboard protocols and night-sailing safety. His wife was not nearly as experienced. 
 
 The Coast Guard eventually located the boat. The FBI said an inspection of the catamaran showed portholes below the waterline had been opened, and damage to the twin hulls appeared to have been caused from the inside, meaning the boat may have been intentionally scuttled. 
 
 Also investigators found Bennett on the life raft with $100,000 worth of coins stolen from a yacht he had worked aboard in 2016. 
 
 Bennett pleaded guilty to the coin-theft charge and received a seven-month prison sentence. 
 
 While serving that sentence, he was charged in February with Hellmann's death and has remained jailed. 
 
 AP/ABC 
 
 Topics: law-crime-and-justice, crime, united-states, bahamas 
 
 First posted