Source: Multi-News

WARCZone is a collection of outsider-uploaded WARCs, which are contributed to the Internet Archive but may or may not be ingested into the Wayback Machine. They are being kept in this location for reference and clarity for the Wayback Team, while also being accessible to the general public who are seeking any particular items they can regarding certain websites. ||||| November 21, 2016 
 
 An Open Letter to Local and State Educational Agencies & Policymakers: 
 
 On behalf of the National Women’s Law Center and the undersigned organizations and individuals, we call on local, state, and federal policymakers to address the damaging use of corporal punishment against our nation’s schoolchildren. It is important to eliminate the use of corporal punishment in both public schools and private schools, which serve students receiving federal services, as well as assist in creating a safer learning environment for every child. Instead, we urge policymakers to ensure that our schools are places where students and educators interact in positive ways that foster students’ growth and dignity. 
 
 More than 109,000 students were subjected to corporal punishment in public schools in the 2013-14 school year —down from 163,333 in the 2011-12 school year. Despite the decline in instances and the many problems associated with the hitting or paddling of students, corporal punishment is a legal form of school discipline in 19 states. Corporal punishment is often used for a wide range of misbehaviors; for example, 37 percent of corporal punishment used in North Carolina during the 2013-14 school year were for minor or subjective offenses like “bus misbehavior, disrespect of staff, cell phone use, inappropriate language and other misbehaviors.” Aside from the infliction of pain and physical injury that often result from the use of physical punishment, these violent disciplinary methods impact students’ academic achievement and long-term well-being. Harsh physical punishments do not improve students’ in-school behavior or academic performance. In fact, one study found that schools in states where corporal punishment is used perform worse on national academic assessments than schools in states that prohibit corporal punishment. 
 
 Moreover, evidence indicates that corporal punishment is disproportionately applied against certain groups of students. In seven states in which corporal punishment was legal in the 2011-12 school year, Black children were three to five times more likely to be corporally punished than white students. Similarly, in several states in the 2011-12 school year, students with disabilities were over five times more likely to experience corporal punishment than students without disabilities. These students are often punished simply for behaviors related to their disabilities, such as autism or Tourette’s syndrome. Hitting any student should be an unacceptable practice, but the disproportionate application of corporal punishment against these populations further undermines their educational environment. Furthermore, corporal punishment of adults has been banned in U.S. prisons and military training facilities. And every state has animal cruelty laws that criminalize beating animals so long and hard that it causes injury—even while allowing students to be subject to corporal punishment. 
 
 Eliminating the use of corporal punishment in schools will assist in ensuring the safety of all students and educators. Families should be allowed to protect their children and states should prohibit the use of physical punishment against students and ensure that a plan is in place to alert school personnel and parents of policies eliminating corporal punishment for students. 
 
 In addition, policymakers should also give schools and educators new tools to foster a positive school climate by encouraging the use of school-wide positive behavior supports, an evidence-based approach to school discipline proven to reduce school discipline referrals and support improved academic outcomes. Local and state educational agencies should also take advantage of grants from the Every Student Succeeds Act, which provides funds to educational agencies to develop and implement restorative justice and positive behavioral supports and interventions in classrooms and schools and train teachers and staff in these methods. 
 
 All local and state educational agencies have a significant interest in ensuring a positive learning environment for the nation’s students. By eliminating the harmful practice of corporal punishment and implementing positive, evidence-based policies, local and state leaders can help students achieve access to a safe and high-quality education. 
 
 Sincerely, 
 
 National Women’s Law Center, joined by the following organizations: 
 
 Academy on Violence and Abuse 
 
 ACLU 
 
 American Academy of Pediatrics 
 
 American Association of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry 
 
 American Association of University Women 
 
 American Federation of Teachers, AFL-CIO 
 
 American Humanist Association 
 
 American Professional Society on the Abuse of Children 
 
 American Psychological Association 
 
 American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee 
 
 Americans Against Corporal Punishment in Public School 
 
 Association of University Centers on Disabilities 
 
 Attachment Parenting International, Atlanta Chapter 
 
 Barton Child Law and Policy Center, Emory Law School 
 
 Center for Civil Rights Remedies, Civil Rights Project at UCLA 
 
 Center for Effective Discipline 
 
 Champion Women 
 
 Child Safe of Central Missouri, Inc. 
 
 Children’s Advocacy Institute 
 
 Children’s Defense Fund 
 
 Clearinghouse on Women’s Issues 
 
 Coleman Advocates for Children & Youth 
 
 Colorado Organization for Latina Opportunity and Reproductive Rights 
 
 Council of Parent Attorneys and Advocates 
 
 Dane County District Attorney’s Deferred Prosecution Program 
 
 Dignity in Schools Campaign 
 
 Division 7: Developmental Psychology, American Psychological Association 
 
 Education Law Center-PA 
 
 Family Services Network 
 
 Futures Without Violence 
 
 Girls Inc. 
 
 GLSEN 
 
 Gundersen Health System 
 
 Gundersen National Child Protection Training Center 
 
 Gwinnett Parent Coalition to Dismantle the School to Prison Pipeline (Gwinnett SToPP) 
 
 Integrated Clinical & Correctional Services 
 
 Judge David L. Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law 
 
 Lives in the Balance 
 
 Massachusetts Citizens for Children 
 
 Minnesota Communities Caring for Children, Home of Prevent Child Abuse MN 
 
 NAACP 
 
 National Alliance for Partnerships in Equity (NAPE) 
 
 National Association of School Psychologists 
 
 National Association of Secondary School Principals (NASSP) 
 
 National Autism Association 
 
 National Center for Special Education in Charter Schools 
 
 National Disability Rights Network 
 
 National Down Syndrome Congress 
 
 National Economic and Social Rights Initiative (NESRI) 
 
 National Education Association 
 
 National Organization for Women 
 
 National PTA 
 
 NC Child 
 
 NCLR (National Council of La Raza) 
 
 Nollie Jenkins Family Center, Inc. 
 
 Otto Bremer Trust Center for Safe and Healthy Children 
 
 Parent Trust for Washington Children 
 
 Partnership for Violence Free Families 
 
 Prevent Child Abuse Illinois 
 
 Project KnuckleHead 
 
 PsycHealth, Ltd. 
 
 Rights4Girls 
 
 Sargent Shriver National Center on Poverty Law 
 
 SelfWorks 
 
 SisterReach 
 
 SisterSong Women of Color Reproductive Justice Collective 
 
 Southeast Asia Resource Action Center (SEARAC) 
 
 Southern Poverty Law Center 
 
 StopSpanking.ORG TASH 
 
 Tennesseans for Non Violent School Discipline 
 
 The National Partnership to End Interpersonal Violence Across the Lifespan 
 
 The Parenting Network 
 
 TNTP (formerly The New Teacher Project) 
 
 U.S. Alliance to End the Hitting of Children 
 
 University of the District of Columbia David A. Clarke School of Law Juvenile and Special Education Law Clinic 
 
 Upbring 
 
 Women’s Law Project 
 
 Youth Service, Inc. ||||| BUFFALO, N.Y. -- Education Secretary John B. King Jr. is urging governors and school leaders in states that allow student paddling to end a practice he said would be considered “criminal assault or battery” against an adult. 
 
 King released a letter Tuesday asking leaders to replace corporal punishment with less punitive, more supportive disciplinary practices that he said work better against bad behavior. 
 
 More than 110,000 students, including disproportionate numbers of black and disabled students, were subjected to paddling or a similar punishment in the 2013-14 school year, said King, citing the Education Department’s Civil Rights Data Collection. 
 
 Corporal punishment is legal in 22 states. 
 
 “The practice has been clearly and repeatedly linked to negative health and academic outcomes for students,” King said during a conference call with reporters. “It is opposed by parent organizations, teachers unions, medical and mental health professionals and civil rights advocates as a wholly inappropriate means of school discipline.” 
 
 Coming toward the end of President Obama’s term, the push to end corporal punishment builds on the administration’s “Rethink Discipline” campaign to create safe and supportive school climates, King said. It also lines up with Mr. Obama’s “My Brother’s Keeper” initiative, meant to address persistent opportunity gaps facing boys and young men of color, he said. 
 
 Eighty organizations, including the American Academy of Pediatrics, NAACP, Association of University Centers on Disabilities and American Federation of Teachers, signed an open letter released by the National Women’s Law Center supporting an end to the practice. Students are regularly paddled for minor or subjective infractions like dress code violations, cellphone use or disrespecting staff, the letter said. 
 
 “Corporal punishment of adults has been banned in prisons and in military training facilities, and it’s time we do the same for our nation’s schoolchildren,” said Fatima Goss Graves of the Women’s Law Center. 
 
 Although its use has been diminishing, there are corners of the country where corporal punishment remains deeply woven into culture and tradition. School administrators say it has broad support from parents and preserves learning time that would be lost to a suspension. 
 
 Fifteen states expressly permit corporal punishment: Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Wyoming. In seven states, there is no state law prohibiting it. They are: Colorado, Idaho, Indiana, Kansas, Maine, New Hampshire and South Dakota. 
 
 “There are better, smarter ways to achieve safe and supportive school environment,” King said, adding that the education law passed late last year supports using funding for positive intervention and supports. 
 
 President-elect Donald Trump has not yet announced his choice for education secretary. He met last week with Michelle Rhee, a former chancellor of the District of Columbia schools. 
 
 “It doesn’t actually matter who the secretary of education is or what people’s view is about the election,” AFT President Randi Weingarten said on the call with King. “This is a moral matter. ... We must all be about safe and welcoming places for all students.” ||||| Education Secretary John King speaks during the daily briefing at the White House in Washington, Thursday, Sept. 29, 2016. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh) (Photo: Susan Walsh, AP) 
 
 U.S. Education Secretary John King is urging school districts nationwide to stop hitting and paddling students, saying corporal punishment is “harmful, ineffective, and often disproportionately applied to students of color and students with disabilities.” 
 
 In a “dear colleague” letter being issued Tuesday, King asks educators to “eliminate this practice from your schools, and instead promote supportive, effective disciplinary measures. 
 
 “The use of corporal punishment can hinder the creation of a positive school climate by focusing on punitive measures to address student misbehavior rather than positive behavioral interventions and supports,” King writes. “Corporal punishment also teaches students that physical force is an acceptable means of solving problems, undermining efforts to promote nonviolent techniques for conflict resolution." 
 
 Recent research suggests that more than 160,000 children in 19 states are potential victims of corporal punishment in schools each year, with African-American children in a few southern school districts about 50% more likely than white students to be smacked or paddled by a school worker. 
 
 The prevalence of corporal punishment in schools has been steadily dropping since the 1970s, according to findings published last month by the Society for Research in Child Development, a Washington, D.C.-based policy group. 
 
 Half of states banned school corporal punishment between 1974 and 1994, but since then, researchers say, only a handful more states have followed suit. 
 
 University of Texas researcher Elizabeth Gershoff and a colleague found that 19 states still allow public school personnel to use corporal punishment, from preschool to high school. The states are all in the south or west: Alabama, Arkansas, Arizona, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Missouri, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Wyoming. 
 
 In his letter, King says that more than one-third of students subject to corporal punishment in schools during the 2013-2014 academic year were black, though black students make up just 16% of public school student population. 
 
 He also notes that boys overall, as well as students with disabilities, were more likely to be punished physically: boys represented about 80% of corporal punishment victims, and in nearly all of the states where the practice is permitted, students with disabilities were subjected to corporal punishment at higher rates than students without them. 
 
 “These data and disparities shock the conscience,” King wrote. 
 
 Follow Greg Toppo on Twitter: @gtoppo 
 
 Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/2fMDLxh