Source: Multi-News

Is divorce seasonal? UW research shows biannual spike in divorce filings 
 
 Deborah Bach News and Information 
 
 To everything there is a season — even divorce, new research from University of Washington sociologists concludes. 
 
 Associate sociology professor Julie Brines and doctoral candidate Brian Serafini found what is believed to be the first quantitative evidence of a seasonal, biannual pattern of filings for divorce. The researchers analyzed filings in Washington state between 2001 and 2015 and found that they consistently peaked in March and August, the periods following winter and summer holidays. 
 
 Their research, presented Aug. 21 at the annual meeting of the American Sociological Association in Seattle, suggests that divorce filings may be driven by a “domestic ritual” calendar governing family behavior. 
 
 Winter and summer holidays are culturally sacred times for families, Brines said, when filing for divorce is considered inappropriate, even taboo. And troubled couples may see the holidays as a time to mend relationships and start anew: We’ll have a happy Christmas together as a family or take the kids for a nice camping trip, the thinking goes, and things will be better. 
 
 “People tend to face the holidays with rising expectations, despite what disappointments they might have had in years past,” Brines said. “They represent periods in the year when there’s the anticipation or the opportunity for a new beginning, a new start, something different, a transition into a new period of life. It’s like an optimism cycle, in a sense. 
 
 “They’re very symbolically charged moments in time for the culture.” 
 
 But holidays are also emotionally charged and stressful for many couples and can expose fissures in a marriage. The consistent pattern in filings, the researchers believe, reflects the disillusionment unhappy spouses feel when the holidays don’t live up to expectations. 
 
 They may decide to file for divorce in August, following the family vacation and before the kids start school. But what explains the spike in March, several months after the winter holidays? 
 
 Couples need time to get finances in order, find an attorney or simply summon the courage to file for divorce, Brines suggests. Though the same considerations apply in summer, Brines thinks the start of the school year school may hasten the timing, at least for couples with children. Suicides also tend to peak in spring, and some experts have said the longer days and increased activity elevates mood enough to motivate people to act. Brines wonders if similar forces are at play with divorce filings. 
 
 Brines and Serafini weren’t initially looking for a pattern in divorce filings when they set out to investigate the effects of the recession, such as rising unemployment rates and declining house values, on marital stability. Poring over divorce filings for counties throughout Washington, they began noticing variations from month to month and were startled to see a pattern emerge. 
 
 “It was very robust from year to year, and very robust across counties,” Brines said. 
 
 The pattern persisted even after accounting for other seasonal factors such as unemployment and the housing market. The researchers reasoned that if the pattern was tied to family holidays, other court actions involving families — such as guardianship rulings — should show a similar pattern, while claims less related to family structure wouldn’t. And they found exactly that: The timing of guardianship filings resembled that of divorce filings, but property claims, for example, did not. 
 
 The divorce filing pattern shifted somewhat during the recession, showing a peak earlier in the year and one in the fall, and more volatility overall. Given uncertainty about financial considerations like housing values and employment, Brines said, it’s not surprising the pattern was disrupted. But the shift in the pattern during the recession is not statistically significant, she said. 
 
 Their research excluded two of Washington’s 39 counties, Lincoln and Wahkiakum. The small, rural counties are among few nationwide that allow marriages to be ended by mail, without a court appearance. Since anyone in Washington can file for divorce in the two counties, the researchers thought they would skew the results — specifically, they figured filings might peak more quickly after the holidays, given the simpler process. But they examined filings in Lincoln County, the only county to accept divorce by mail since 2001, and saw the same pattern, albeit more pronounced, as elsewhere in the state. 
 
 “That leads me to think that it takes some time emotionally for people to take this step,” Brines said. “Filing for divorce, whether you do it by mail or appear in court, is a big step.” 
 
 The researchers are now looking at whether the filing pattern they identified translates to other states. They examined data for four other states — Ohio, Minnesota, Florida and Arizona — that have similar divorce laws as Washington but differ in demographics and economic conditions, particularly during the recession. Florida and Arizona were among states hit hardest by the real estate collapse, and Ohio had higher than average employment rates. 
 
 Despite those differences, Brines said, the pattern persisted. 
 
 “What I can tell you is that the seasonal pattern of divorce filings is more or less the same,” she said. 
 
 For more information, contact Brines at brines@uw.edu or 206-685-9067. ||||| According to research, spring is the season for love. We crawl out from under our down comforters, notice that the world is full of life again, and all those new and refreshing smells, the ones we had almost forgotten about, trigger the release of dopamine, and suddenly we’re in love. But because the light can’t exist without the dark, then there must be a season for divorce, too, right? Of course there is, says science. 
 
 While many are falling over themselves in love during the spring, a new study has found that divorce filings spike seasonally, too. The study by associate sociology professor Julie Brines and doctoral candidate Brian Serafini, both of the University of Washington, examined filings for divorce in Washington State from 2001 to 2015. What they found is that there is, indeed, a season for divorce, or rather two months out of the year where people are most likely to file for it: March and August. 
 
 “People tend to face the holidays with rising expectations, despite what disappointments they might have had in years past,” Brines said in a press release. “They represent periods in the year when there’s the anticipation or the opportunity for a new beginning, a new start, something different, a transition into a new period of life. It’s like an optimism cycle, in a sense." 
 
 Here’s the breakdown about these two months in particular: 
 
 March 
 
 1. Holidays Are A "Sacred" Time 
 
 [Embed] 
 
 According to the research, “domestic ritual” comes into play. Very few people are likely to run out and file for divorce right before the holidays, especially if they have kids, and throw a wrench in Thanksgiving, Christmas, or Hanukkah. These are seen as “sacred times,” according to Brines. So no matter how bad the past year has been, they’re willing to hang on to see if the holidays will inject some sort of positivity into the situation. 
 
 2. New Year’s Offers Hope Of A New Beginning 
 
 [Embed] 
 
 With the New Year just around the corner after those holidays, people have high expectations for change, so they hold out. I mean, there’s a reason why so many people look at Jan. 1 as a good time to a make resolution or a new start. 
 
 3. Money Needs To Be Saved 
 
 [Embed] 
 
 Divorce isn’t cheap. So for those who realize that the holidays and the New Year didn’t offer the change for which they had hoped and want a divorce, they might need to get their finances in order first. The holidays take a massive toll on everyone’s wallet, but by the time March rolls around, people start to have their finances back on track, putting them in the financial position to start divorce proceedings. 
 
 4. Spring Motivates People 
 
 [Embed] 
 
 Just as the winter and those short days strip us of motivation, spring has the opposite effect. While it may be a time for falling in love for some, for those who are in a marriage that seems like a dead end, the elevated mood that comes with the new season, causes people to take action and do what they feel needs to be done to make their life happier. Whether you’re able to have a happy divorce (good luck with that) or a messy divorce, the end result is closing a chapter in ones life and moving on to the next. 
 
 August 
 
 1. It’s The End Of Summer Holidays 
 
 [Embed] 
 
 Again, the sociologists turned to “domestic ritual,” as a reason August sees a spike in divorce filings. Similar to the end-of-year holidays, summer holidays also have their own level of sacredness. Since that’s the case, many people wait until the holidays are over before making their move. There’s also the hope here that maybe the summer holidays will help mend the marriage, but when it doesn’t pan out that way, people decide it’s time to file for divorce. 
 
 2. September Is Also A Month Of New Beginnings 
 
 [Embed] 
 
 While September may not be thought of a new start with the same vigor as New Years, it is a new beginning in some ways: The kids go back to school, the sweltering summer is behind us, and pumpkin spice latte season is just around the corner, so the need to change with the season could play a role, too. According to Brines, the start of the new school year can “hasten the timing,” for those married couples with children who want to divorce. 
 
 3. By August People Are Even More Secure 
 
 [Embed] 
 
 For those who didn’t make the move to file for divorce in March, August becomes a big month because it can take a while for someone to find the nerve to actually go through with it. Filing for divorce is such an emotional thing, so if you’ve given all you can through the winter holidays, hoped for the best during the spring, then stuck it out through the summer holidays, August just naturally becomes a prime time of year to say goodbye. 
 
 Images: Fotolia; Giphy (7)