Source: Multi-News

Flooding in the southern Indian state of Tamil Nadu has killed more than 40 people in the past 48 hours, authorities said Thursday, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Chennai, the country’s fourth-largest city, which has borne the brunt of the deluge. 
 
 Taking stock, on the ground…PM taking overview of flood relief operations at INS Rajali, Arakkonam. pic.twitter.com/XY1qm3fwfE — PMO India (@PMOIndia) December 3, 2015 
 
 Hundreds of soldiers and sailors from India’s armed forces have been deployed to assist in relief efforts after weeks of heavy rains that have left more than 250 people dead since the start of November. 
 
 Chennai’s international airport, closed on Wednesday because the runway was under seven feet of water, will remain shut until at least midday on Sunday, according to the state-run Airports Authority of India. 
 
 The city is one of India’s auto-manufacturing hubs and home to scores of international car makers and suppliers. 
 
 Ford Motor Co. and Hyundai Motor Co. were among automakers forced to shut operations because of the heavy rains. Hyundai’s two factories in the city, which have a combined production capacity of close to 700,000 cars, had stopped operations late Tuesday and wouldn’t resume until Friday, said a company spokeswoman. 
 
 India’s Home Minister Rajnath Singh told lawmakers on Thursday that the government had released 9.4 billion rupees ($141 million) for flood relief and restoration. On his arrival in Chennai Thursday evening, Mr. Modi announced an additional 10 billion rupees for relief operations. “The Government of India stands shoulder to shoulder with the people of Tamil Nadu in this hour of need,” he said. 
 
 In November, Mr. Modi said the torrential rains in Chennai were a result of climate change. “We are feeling climate change’s fast-growing impact now,” he said. 
 
 Others blamed rampant construction, including building in areas close to the city’s rivers, for the flooding. “Development in the city has not taken into account that many parts are low-lying,” said Anil Kumar Gupta, head of policy planning at India’s National Institute of Disaster Management. 
 
 Construction “has been done in a way that narrows and blocks drains,” said Mr. Gupta who co-authored a 2011 research paper titled “Urban floods in Bangalore and Chennai: risk management challenges and and lessons for sustainable urban ecology.” 
 
 The India Meteorological Department has forecast heavy rain for Tamil Nadu until Friday. Incessant downpours have caused the Adyar River, which flows through Chennai, to swell to dangerous levels and overflow its banks. 
 
 Formerly known as Madras, Chennai is low-lying and most areas of the city are only just above sea level, making drainage difficult even when rainfall levels are normal. 
 
 According to the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority, inadequate sewerage infrastructure causes river beds to silt up, creating blockages that prevent floodwaters from draining into the sea. 
 
 Television footage on Thursday showed residents in the city wading through muddy waters and complaining about the sluggish pace of relief operations. Chennai’s main railway station suspended services on Thursday. 
 
 Tamil Nadu’s chief minister, J. Jayalalithaa, was quoted as saying in November that “losses are unavoidable when there’s very heavy rain.” 
 
 “Swift rescue and relief alone are indicators of a good government,” the website of the news channel NDTV quoted Ms. Jayalalithaa as saying during the first spell of downpours during the monsoon. 
 
 The rains have left more than 30 aircraft stranded at the airport, the Airports Authority of India said in a statement. Almost 300 passengers had been sent by bus to the neighboring city of Bangalore to catch flights from there, but hundreds more remained stranded at the airport, the AAI said. 
 
 Anurag Gupta, a senior official in the National Disaster Management Authority, said efforts are underway to ferry stranded passengers in helicopters to a naval air station in Arakonnam, about 60 miles away. They are to be flown from there to other cities. 
 
 The inundated airport, lack of mobility owing to poor roads and a breakdown of telecommunication links has severely hampered rescue operations, Mr. Gupta said. The National Disaster Response Force has deployed more than 1,000 personnel and 130 boats to Chennai. 
 
 So far, they have evacuated more than 2,000 people. Meanwhile, on Twitter, social-media users were organizing help through hashtags #ChennaiRainsHelp and #ChennaiRains, with users offering food, medicines and tweeting details of shelters where those affected could take refuge. 
 
 Here’s a list of specific hashtags you can use during #ChennaiRains pic.twitter.com/NxIpYgFbAj — Twitter India (@TwitterIndia) December 2, 2015 
 
 Some volunteers on the ground managed to tweet information about the kind of aid available in different parts of the city. 
 
 Facebook Inc. initiated its “safety check” feature, which allows people in disaster zones to mark themselves as safe on the social-media site so friends and family can know their whereabouts. 
 
 Photos below show the impact of the floods in the city in the past 24 hours. 
 
 People stood on a rail bridge under construction as they watched the rising levels of the Adyar river in Chennai, Dec. 2. Associated Press 
 
 People travel on a boat through a flooded road in Chennai, Dec. 2. Reuters 
 
 People waded through a water-logged street in Chennai, Dec. 2. Zuma Press 
 
 This photo released by India’s Press Information Bureau showed the submerged Chennai airport, Dec. 2. Reuters 
 
 A temple is submerged in flood waters in Chennai, Dec. 2. European Pressphoto Agency 
 
 People travelled on a boat as they move to safer places through a flooded road in Chennai, Dec. 2. Reuters 
 
 –Santanu Choudhury contributed to this post. 
 
 For breaking news, features and analysis from India, follow WSJ India on Facebook. ||||| As the flood-ravaged Indian city of Chennai got some respite from torrential rains, a trade body said losses to businesses from the record downpour could reach more than 150 billion rupees ($2.2 billion). 
 
 Water released from overflowing lakes and reservoirs wreaked havoc across a vast swathe of the metropolis of 9 million and surrounding areas, with the monsoon season’s death toll climbing to 269. As authorities struggled to deal with the disaster, activists, film stars and executives started campaigns on social media including Twitter and Facebook for rescue and relief. The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India termed the situation as “total chaos.” 
 
 “The city has come to a virtual standstill and is in the grip of fear and panic,” Assocham said in a statement on Thursday, urging the federal government to “immediately” handle this “extreme crisis” with a suitable package. 
 
 Air Evacuation 
 
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi set out on an aerial survey of the broken city, while the Indian Air Force started evacuating hundreds of passengers stranded at the local airport, which is expected to be shut at least until Dec. 6. Apollo Tyres Ltd. expected a production loss of 450 metric tons at its factory in the outskirts. The state administration has advised manufacturers to keep their operations shut till Dec. 7, BMW AG’s local unit said. 
 
 Small and medium enterprises, automobile, engineering, information technology and tourism are among the sectors which are the worst-affected, Assocham said in the statement on its website. 
 
 The government of the state of Tamil Nadu, whose capital is Chennai, said it deployed senior officials to undertake precautionary measures in three districts, distribute food and shift people to higher ground. Television images showed residents in almost neck-deep, brown water in many neighborhoods as local fishermen and volunteers helped ferry the elderly, women and children in boats. 
 
 Relief efforts were proving to be challenging as some roads have been washed away and telephone networks were down, Home Minister Rajnath Singh told lawmakers on Thursday. 
 
 Royal Enfield 
 
 Shares of Chennai-based TVS Motor Co. have slumped 7.1 percent this week, the worst since July 2014. Apollo Tyres had its biggest loss in more than a month. Chennai Petroleum Corp., a unit of Indian Oil Corp., slumped 5.1 percent, the most in a month, after saying it may shut one or two of its three crude units in Tamil Nadu. 
 
 Local operations of Ford Motor Co. to Infosys Ltd., the nation’s second-biggest software maker, remained shut for a second day. Eicher Motors Ltd., which makes the Royal Enfield motorcycles, said it closed its two plants near the city and lost about 9 percent of its output in November. 
 
 Additional Flights 
 
 As many as 34 aircraft, including those of budget carrier SpiceJet Ltd., were stuck at the airport. Of those, at least five each belonged to Jet Airways Ltd. and state-owned Air India Ltd., according to flight-tracking website FlightRadar24. The nation’s biggest airline IndiGo had two of its own stuck there. It said it will operate additional flights from nearby Bengaluru to accommodate passengers fleeing Chennai by road. 
 
 Some relief came on Thursday from the weather department, which downgraded an earlier forecast for heavy rainfall to “light to moderate” for the next few days in the city. When asked if the worst was over, L.S. Rathore, director general of the Indian Meteorological Department told reporters, “Hopefully. We have to be watchful for the next 48 hours.” 
 
 Chennai saw a record 1,218.6 millimeters of precipitation in November, three times more than normal, according to forecaster Skymet. The northeast monsoon typically sets in between October and December over India’s east coast, where Chennai is located. 
 
 Radio stations and television channels formed partnerships to help people reach out to families and authorities, while Twitter started as many as three hashtags to connect the stranded and rescue volunteers. Facebook activated its recently-introduced "Safety Check" feature that identifies and checks on people in the vicinity of natural disasters. 
 
 Power outages to prevent electrocutions added to the misery. One Twitter user sought help to rescue 200 colleagues from an office building with no electricity, while another looked for food to feed his infant. 
 
 Assocham, the trade body, attributed the disaster mainly to “unplanned growth.” “Authorities in all metros should review their disaster management plans at regular intervals and make long-term plans to improve drainage systems,” it said in the statement.