Source: Multi-News

The Red Room Looking for someone who shares my beliefs, and is similar to me. 
 
 Spiritual Passions: Report This Profile ||||| The Douglas County sheriff says he will never utter the name of the man responsible for the deadly attack at Umpqua Community College and has called on news media to do the same. 
 
 "Let me be very clear: I will not name the shooter." Sheriff John Hanlin said during a Thursday night briefing at a fire station near the Roseburg campus. "I will not give him credit for this horrific act of cowardice." 
 
 He encouraged the news media and community to "avoid using it, repeating it, or engaging in any glorification and sensationalization of him. 
 
 "He in no way deserves it," he said. "Focus your attention on the victims and their families and helping them to recover." 
 
 Law enforcement swarmed the college after an active shooter was reported at 10:38 a.m. The campus was put in lockdown while officers tracked down the gunman and exchanged gunfire. Shortly thereafter, officials confirmed the shooter had been "neutralized," but not before he killed nine people and wounded seven others. 
 
 Meanwhile Thursday afternoon in nearby Winchester, crime scene tape marked off an apartment complex where the gunman, already identified by The Oregonian/OregonLive and other media as Chris Harper-Mercer, lived. 
 
 Rita Cavin, the college's interim president, offered her heartfelt condolences to those affected by the tragedy. 
 
 "This has been a long, sad tragic day at Umpqua Community College," she said. 
 
 Yet she thanked all for their outpouring of support. It shows the "power that love can bring to this community" and the "blessings of a small town...we're so interconnected," she said. 
 
 Local, state and federal officials have arrived to help with the investigation of the shooting, which took place on Umpqua's hilltop campus overlooking the Umpqua River. 
 
 The FBI has created a tips line -- 800-225-5324 -- for those with information about the attack. 
 
 Staff writers Maxine Bernstein and Andrew Greif contributed to this report. 
 
 -- Nuran Alteir 
 
 nalteir@oregonian.com 
 
 503-294-4028 
 
 @whatnuransaid ||||| Umpqua college shooter, who was born in England according to media reports, had a varied online presence that indicated support for the IRA 
 
 The Umpqua shooter has been named as Chris Harper Mercer, a 26-year-old who lived with his mother at an apartment only a few miles from the college. 
 
 American media reports said he was born in England and moved to the US at a young age: his stepsister, Carmen Nesnick, told CBS Los Angeles that he travelled to the US as a young boy. Other accounts report that Nesnick specified that Harper-Mercer was born in England. 
 
 'Another mass shooting in America': Oregon killings a grim familiarity for US Read more 
 
 Harper-Mercer was the son of Ian Mercer and Laurel Margaret Harper. Mercer and Harper filed for divorce on 6 June 2006. He appears to have left an online footprint that hints at interest in mass shootings as well as apparent support for the IRA. 
 
 He also appears to have been a prolific user of the file-sharing system Bittorrent. 
 
 An email address, “ironcross45@gmail.com”, was found to be associated with a Chris Harper Mercer of Winchester, Oregon, via a public records search. That address is linked to an account on the torrent upload site kat-ph.proxy-x.com, which bears the username “Lithium_Love”. 
 
 The final video uploaded by Lithium_Love to the torrent site, just three days ago, was a BBC documentary called Surviving Sandy Hook about the school shooting in Newtown, Connecticut, in 2012. 
 
 Other uploads include PDFs of the occult magazine Phenomena, conspiracy-themed documentaries including Lost Secrets of the Illuminati, and assorted soft pornography. 
 
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest The father of Chris Harper Mercer says he is ‘devastated’ by the campus shooting. Link to video 
 
 There is also a blog attached to the upload account. The first entry was posted on 6 July 2015 and is titled “The material world is a lie.” It says: “Most people will spend hours standing in front of stores just to buy a new iphone ... I used to be like that, always concerned about what clothes I had, rather than whether or not I was happy. But not anymore. 
 
 “Since then I have learned the truth that such attachments are falsehoods and will only bring misery. This is my first blog post, there will be more to come.” 
 
 Other blogposts complain about the uploading habits of other users. Another bemoans the death of horror filmmaker Wes Craven. 
 
 A Myspace page bearing Mercer’s name is filled with pictures of masked gunmen and references to the IRA, including a picture of the front page of a the Irish republican newspaper An Phoblacht, bearing the headline “British Army Could Not Defeat IRA”. Another photo to the page carries the words “IRA undefeated army”. 
 
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest Screengrab taken from Chris Harper-Mercer’s myspace page. Photograph: myspace.com/PA 
 
 The page gives Mercer’s home location as Torrance, California. A Whitepages page – which tracks addresses and phone numbers – gives two addresses for Mercer: one in Torrance, California, and the other in Winchester, Oregon. The latter is also the address associated with the registration of the “ironcross45” email address. 
 
 Using that email address, Mercer also appears to have advertised for penpals on the website Morgue Pals, which describes itself as “the hippest place for pen pals who identify with any sort of alternative culture”. 
 
 In his advertisement, Mercer, then aged 20, said he was looking for email pals and described his hobbies as “music movies and news”. 
 
 In his profile, he described himself as: “I’m 20 years old, in college, I like to listen to music, mostly goth/punk/industrial/electronic, and I love to watch movies, Horror movies are the best, but i also like some action films, depending on the type, and I like crime dramas as well.“ 
 
 He added: “I’m looking for penpals who are similar to me, but anyone is welcome to email me.” 
 
 A posting on the Spiritual Passions dating and social networking site uses a picture that appears to be Mercer under the user name IRONCROSS45, which Mercer also used as his email. 
 
 He described himself on the site as a 26-year-old, mixed-race “man looking for a woman”. He said he was “not religious, but spiritual”, and was a “teetotaler” living with his parents and a conservative Republican. Socially, he said, he was “shy at first” and “better in small groups”. He described himself as “always dieting” and looking for “the yin to my yang”. 
 
 The email address Ironcross45@gmail.com is also associated with a crowdfunding webpage to help the user pay for uploading and storing bittorrent files for downloading videos as well. According to the cached version of the webpage, the most recent video uploaded was Collection Of Hot Lesbians (Nudes) Vol. 8. 
 
 Two phone numbers associated with the name appeared to have been disconnected. 
 
 A profile on the site belonging to Mercer on the website Spiritual Singles, which advertises itself as “a free online dating & social networking site specifically for spiritual singles,” and bears a picture of the same person as Mercer’s Myspace page, the alleged killer describes himself politically as a “conservative, republican” whose hobbies are “internet, killing zombies, movies, music, reading” and who lives with parents. 
 
 In the profile, the personality type he is looking for is “intellectual, punk, introvert, loner, lover, geek, nerd” with an “individuality” of “piercings, psychic, tattoos, vampire”. His preferred religious views are “Pagan, Wiccan, Not Religious, but Spiritual” as well. 
 
 On the image-sharing message-board 4chan, rumours were flying on Thursday night that the killer may have been one of their own. In an anonymous post at 1:19am on Thursday morning on the /r9k board – all posts to 4chan are anonymous – someone said “Some of you guys are alright. Don’t go to school tomorrow if you are in the northwest.” 
 
 There is no way of verifying that the post came from the shooter. 
 
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest A conversation on the website 4Chan where an anonymous poster warns of violence to come in the northwest of Oregon, USA. Photograph: 4Chan 
 
 A spokesperson for the Douglas County sheriff’s department, which is handling the investigation, said it could “neither confirm nor deny” at this point that they were investigating the post, though federal officials reportedly told the New York Times that they were doing so. 
 
 It is not known if Mercer was affiliated with the college, but his name was listed as a production assistant for an upcoming production of the Noel Coward play Blithe Spirit at Umpqua. 
 
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest A post on Facebook showing the name of Chris Harper Mercer, the alleged gunman in the Oregon shootings, 2 October 2015. Harper Mercer is named as a production assistant in the post. Photograph: Facebook 
 
 The gunman’s father, Ian Mercer, said he was “just as shocked as everybody” at his son’s actions. Speaking from his home in the US, he told reporters: “I’ve just been talking to the police and the FBI and all the details I have right now is what you guys [reporters] have already. 
 
 “I can’t answer any questions right now, I don’t want to answer any questions right now. It’s been a devastating day, devastating for me and my family. Shocked is all I can say.” ||||| ROSEBURG, Ore. (AP) — A gunman opened fire inside a classroom at a rural Oregon community college Thursday, killing at least nine people before dying in a shootout with police, authorities said. One survivor said he demanded his victims state their religion before he started shooting. 
 
 A woman is comforted as friends and family wait for students at the local fairgrounds after a shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore., on Thursday, Oct. 1, 2015. (AP Photo/Ryan Kang) (Associated Press) 
 
 Students, staff and faculty are evacuated from Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore. Thursday, Oct. 1, 2015, after a deadly shooting. (Michael Sullivan/The News-Review via AP) MANDATORY CREDIT (Associated Press) 
 
 President Barack Obama pauses as he speaks in the Brady Press Briefing Room at the White House in Washington, Thursday, Oct. 1, 2015, about the shooting at the community college in Oregon. The shooting... (Associated Press) 
 
 Hannah Miles, center, is reunited with her sister Hailey Miles, left, and father Gary Miles, right, after a shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore., on Thursday, Oct. 1, 2015. (AP Photo/Ryan... (Associated Press) 
 
 A bullet casing is marked at the scene of a deadly shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore., Thursday, Oct. 1, 2015. (Michael Sullivan/The News-Review via AP) MANDATORY CREDIT (Associated Press) 
 
 Authorities respond to a report of a shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore., Thursday, Oct. 1, 2015. (Michael Sullivan /The News-Review via AP) MANDATORY CREDIT (Associated Press) 
 
 Police search students outside Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore., Thursday, Oct. 1, 2015, following a deadly shooting at the college. (Mike Sullivan/Roseburg News-Review via AP) (Associated Press) 
 
 The attack shattered the first week of classes at Umpqua Community College in the small timber town of Roseburg, about 180 miles south of Portland. 
 
 The killer was identified as 26-year-old Chris Harper Mercer, according to a government official who was not authorized to speak publicly and provided the name on condition of anonymity. Authorities shed no light on his motive and said they were investigating. 
 
 Hannah Miles, a 19-year-old freshman, was in her writing class when her teacher got a call from security saying the school was in lockdown. She heard gunshots from a neighboring classroom. 
 
 Huddled together in the locked classroom, the students and teacher heard a footsteps outside and a man's voice call out to them, "Come on out, come on out," Miles said. They remained quiet and didn't open the door. 
 
 Police soon arrived, Miles said, and after students were convinced that it was indeed officers, they opened the door. 
 
 "It was like a huge burden had been lifted," she said. "A huge sigh of relief that we were going to be OK." 
 
 Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin said at least two officers acted heroically in the shootout, but it was not clear if the gunman was killed by authorities or whether he took his own life. 
 
 At a news conference, a visibly angry Hanlin said he would not name the shooter. 
 
 "I will not name the shooter. I will not give him the credit he probably sought prior to this horrific and cowardly act," he said. 
 
 Mercer had been living at an apartment complex in nearby Winchester. Yellow police tape surrounded the building Thursday night. 
 
 A neighbor, Bronte Hart, said Mercer would "sit by himself in the dark in the balcony with this little light." 
 
 Hart said a woman she believed to be Mercer's mother also lived upstairs and was "crying her eyes out" Thursday. 
 
 Sarah Cobb, 17, was in a writing class when gunfire erupted in the next room. She heard a shot, but thought a book had fallen. Then a teacher said they needed to get out, and the class ran out the door as she heard two more shots. 
 
 "I was freaking out. I didn't know what to think, what to do," she said. 
 
 Distressed parents rushed to the county fairgrounds, where students were being taken by bus to reunite with families. 
 
 Jessica Chandler was at the fairgrounds desperately seeking information about her 18-year-old daughter, Rebecka Carnes. 
 
 "I don't know where she is. I don't know if she's wounded. I have no idea where she's at," Chandler said. 
 
 Carnes' best friend told Chandler that her daughter had been flown by helicopter to a hospital, but she had not been able to find her at area medical centers. 
 
 The sheriff said 10 people were dead and seven wounded. An FBI spokeswoman said the gunman was included in that number. Earlier, Oregon Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum said 13 people had been killed. It was unclear what led to the discrepancy. 
 
 "It's been a terrible day," a grim-faced Hanlin said. "Certainly this is a huge shock to our community." 
 
 Hours after the attack, a frustrated President Barack Obama spoke to reporters at the White House, saying the U.S. is becoming numb to mass shootings and that the shooters have "sickness" in their minds. 
 
 Repeating his support for tighter gun-control measures, the president said thoughts and prayers are no longer enough in such situations because they do nothing to stop similar attacks from happening a few weeks or months later. He challenged voters wanting to confront the problem to vote for elected officials who will act. 
 
 Police began receiving calls about a campus shooting at 10:38 a.m. The school has a single unarmed security guard. 
 
 Kortney Moore, 18, said she was in a writing class when a shot came through the window and hit the teacher in the head. 
 
 The gunman then entered the Snyder Hall classroom and told people to get on the floor, she told the Roseburg News-Review newspaper. He told people to stand up and state their religion before opening fire. 
 
 Next door, students heard a loud thud and then a volley of gunfire, Brady Winder, 23, told the newspaper. 
 
 Students scrambled "like ants, people screaming, 'Get out!'" Winder said. He said one woman swam across a creek to get away. 
 
 The gunfire sparked panic as students ran for safety and police and ambulances rushed to the scene. 
 
 Lorie Andrews, who lives across the street from the campus, heard what sounded like fireworks and then saw police cruisers streaming in. She spoke with students as they left. 
 
 "One girl came out wrapped in a blanket with blood on her," she said. 
 
 Some students were in tears. Police lined them up in a parking lot with their hands over their heads and searched them. 
 
 Roseburg is no stranger to school gun violence. A freshman at the local high school shot and wounded a fellow student in 2006. 
 
 The sheriff has been vocal in opposing state and federal gun-control legislation. In 2013, Hanlin sent a letter to Vice President Joe Biden after the shooting at a Newtown, Connecticut, elementary school, declaring that he and his deputies would refuse to enforce new gun-control restrictions "offending the constitutional rights of my citizens." 
 
 Before the Roseburg shooting, a posting on the message-board site 4chan included a photo of a crudely drawn frog used regularly in Internet memes with a gun and warned other users not to go to school Thursday in the Northwest. The messages that followed spoke of mass shootings, with some egging on and even offering tips to the original poster. It was unclear if the messages were tied to the shooting because of the largely anonymous nature of the site. 
 
 Roseburg is in Douglas County, a politically conservative region west of the Cascade Range where people like to hunt and fish and pursue other outdoor activities. Many of the students in local schools go on to attend the college of 3,000 students. 
 
 Former UCC President Joe Olson, who retired in June after four years, said the school had no formal security staff, just one officer on a shift. 
 
 One of the biggest debates on campus last year was whether to post armed security officers on campus to respond to a shooting. 
 
 "I suspect this is going to start a discussion across the country about how community colleges prepare themselves for events like this," he said. 
 
 There were no immediate plans to upgrade security on the campus in light of the shooting, Cavin said. 
 
 ___ 
 
 Associated Press writers Steven Dubois in Portland, Oregon; Martha Mendoza in Santa Cruz, California; Gene Johnson and Donna Blankinship in Seattle; and Eric Tucker in Washington, D.C., contributed to this report. Brian Melley contributed writing from Los Angeles. ||||| The gunman who opened fire at Oregon's Umpqua Community College targeted Christians specifically, according to the father of a wounded student. 
 
 Before going into spinal surgery, Anastasia Boylan told her father and brother the gunman entered her classroom firing. The professor in the classroom was shot point blank. Others were hit, she told her family. 
 
 Everyone in the classroom dropped to the ground. 
 
 The gunman, while reloading his handgun, ordered the students to stand up if they were Christians, Boylan told her family. 
 
 "And they would stand up and he said, 'Good, because you're a Christian, you're going to see God in just about one second,'" Boylan's father, Stacy, told CNN, relaying her account. 
 
 "And then he shot and killed them." 
 
 [Last update posted at 11:28 p.m. ET] 
 
 (CNN ) -- Ten people were killed when a gunman opened fire at Oregon's Umpqua Community College on Thursday, forcing the nation to face yet another mass shooting. 
 
 Seven other people were injured, and the shooter is dead, Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin told reporters. Earlier estimates had put the number of people hurt much higher. 
 
 Multiple law enforcement officials familiar with the investigation identified the gunman as 26-year-old Chris Harper Mercer. Investigators have interviewed members of his family and friends, they said. 
 
 "I will not name the shooter," Hanlin said. "I will not give him the credit he probably sought." 
 
 Authorities credited a quick response by law enforcement for keeping the death toll from climbing higher. 
 
 A law enforcement official said the shooter had body armor with him and was heavily armed, with a large amount of ammunition -- enough for a prolonged gunfight. 
 
 Hanlin said tactical teams and bomb squads had cleared the buildings on campus and were working to clear hundreds of vehicles parked on campus. 
 
 Tactical teams/bomb technicians have cleared all campus buildings; officers working to clear hundreds of campus-parked vehicles #UCCShooting — Douglas Co Sheriff (@DouglasCoSO) October 2, 2015 
 
 Huddled together 
 
 Cassandra Welding is a student at the Roseburg campus and was in class when the shooting started. 
 
 "I heard a popping noise, almost like a balloon popping," she told CNN's Wolf Blitzer. "I knew something wasn't right and so I get down." 
 
 She said all of the students in her classroom dropped to the ground. They huddled together behind backpacks and chairs, underneath tables. 
 
 "We locked the doors, turned off the lights, and we were all pretty much in panic mode," Welding said. 
 
 "We called 911 and called our parents, our loved ones ... We didn't know what was going to happen, if those were our last words or not." 
 
 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college Community members attend a candlelight vigil at Stewart Park for those killed during a shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon, on Thursday, October 1. The massacre left nine people dead and nine wounded. The gunman also died. Hide Caption 1 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college In response to the shooting on October 1, President Barack Obama delivers the 15th statement of his presidency addressing gun violence. "Somehow this has become routine," he said. "The reporting is routine. My response here at this podium ends up being routine, the conversation in the aftermath of it. We've become numb to this." Hide Caption 2 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college Students and faculty are reunited with friends and family at the county fairgrounds on October 1. Hide Caption 3 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college People wait for information at the fairgrounds on October 1. Hide Caption 4 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college Hannah Miles, center, is reunited with her sister Hailey and father, Gary, on October 1. Hide Caption 5 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college A student waits to walk off a school bus at the fairgrounds on October 1. Hide Caption 6 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college Friends and family are reunited on October 1. Hide Caption 7 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college A woman is comforted after the deadly shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon, on October 1. Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin announced at a news conference that the shooter was dead. Hide Caption 8 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college Authorities secure the campus after the shooting on October 1. Hide Caption 9 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college Students, staff and faculty leave the school on October 1. Hide Caption 10 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college A bullet casing is marked at the scene of the shooting on October 1. Hide Caption 11 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college People gather at a roadblock near the entrance to the college on October 1. Hide Caption 12 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college Authorities respond after reports of the shooting on October 1. Hide Caption 13 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college Police search students outside the school on October 1. Hide Caption 14 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college A patient is wheeled into the emergency room at Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg on October 1. Hide Caption 15 of 15 
 
 The shooting 
 
 The shooting appears to have started in one building before the gunman moved to the school's science building, a source with knowledge of the investigation told CNN. Those killed and wounded were found in at least two classrooms. 
 
 "We arrived to find multiple patients in multiple classrooms. Law enforcement was on scene and had the shooter neutralized," said Douglas County Fire Marshal Ray Shoufler. 
 
 He told CNN that two patients died while being transported to a hospital. 
 
 JUST WATCHED Multiple guns found at scene of UCC shooting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Multiple guns found at scene of UCC shooting 01:51 
 
 Mercy Medical Center posted on Facebook that it had received 10 patients. The extent of their injuries was not known. 
 
 Three female victims were at PeaceHealth Sacred Heart Medical Center at RiverBend in Springfield, according to a hospital spokeswoman. 
 
 It wasn't immediately clear why the hospitals' numbers conflicted with the figure provided by Sheriff Hanlin. 
 
 A law enforcement official told CNN three pistols and one rifle believed to have belonged to the suspect were recovered at the scene. 
 
 ATF agents were also on scene and canine teams were en route to search for explosives, fire arms casings and ammunition, a spokesman said. FBI agents were en route. 
 
 The community 
 
 Roseburg is a city of about 22,000 people about 70 miles south of Eugene, Oregon, and some 180 miles south of Portland. 
 
 The school itself is up on a hill outside the city center, according to Rick Francona, a CNN military analyst who lives nearby. Francona said that logging is a big industry in the region, which is fairly rural but easily accessible from Interstate 5. 
 
 "This is so out of character for this whole area," he said. 
 
 News of the shooting quickly reached Washington, with the state's senior senator, Ron Wyden, visibly shaken and Sen. Jeff Merkley tweeting that he was praying for the victims and their families. 
 
 Oregonians everywhere want Roseburg to know we're praying for them. — Ron Wyden (@RonWyden) October 1, 2015 
 
 Horrific news from Umpqua Community College in Roseburg. My heart and prayers are with the victims and their families. — Senator Jeff Merkley (@SenJeffMerkley) October 1, 2015 
 
 U.S. President Barack Obama was briefed on the situation and will continue to receive updates throughout the day. 
 
 He pushed for a change in gun laws when he spoke to reporters about the shooting Thursday. 
 
 "Somehow this has become routine. The reporting is routine. My response here at this podium ends up being routine, the conversation in the aftermath of it. We've become numb to this," he said. 
 
 The President continued: "Our thoughts and prayers are not enough. It's not enough. It does not capture the heartache and grief and anger that we should feel, and it does nothing to prevent this carnage from being inflicted someplace else in America -- next week, or a couple months from now." 
 
 The school 
 
 A picturesque campus in the North Umpqua River Valley, Umpqua Community College prides itself on a "a peaceful, safe atmosphere, and year-round recreational activities," according to its website. 
 
 It's not a traditional institution of higher learning, as the average age of its 13,600 students was 38 during the 2013-2014 school year. Only 740 of those were full time, 2,437 were part time and more than 10,000 fell under the umbrella of "community education." 
 
 It first began teaching classes out of rented facilities in 1961. Elton and Ruth Jackson donated 98.5 acres to house the campus in 1965. 
 
 The school will be closed until Monday as a result of the shooting. 
 
 The interim leader of Umpqua Community College called Thursday "the saddest day in the history of the college."