Source: Multi-News

CANBERRA, Australia (AP) — An Australian cookbook author who falsely said she beat cancer through healthy eating has been fined by a court for misleading consumers by lying about her charitable donations. 
 
 The judge had ruled in March that Belle Gibson's deceptive claims of donating the proceeds from the sales of "The Whole Pantry" and a related app constituted unconscionable conduct under Australian consumer law. 
 
 Federal Court Justice Debra Mortimer on Thursday ordered Gibson to pay a total of 410,000 Australian dollars ($320,000) for five contraventions of the law relating to false claims that the proceeds would go to various charities. 
 
 Gibson did not attend court in Melbourne. She was advised of the fine Wednesday night and responded in an email: "Thank you for the update. Much appreciated." 
 
 The book and app were withdrawn. ||||| Gibson, who built a wellness empire on the back of claims she cured terminal brain cancer through diet and lifestyle, has admitted deceiving her followers 
 
 'None of it’s true': wellness blogger Belle Gibson admits she never had cancer 
 
 Disgraced wellness blogger Belle Gibson, who built an online community and sold a recipe book off the back of claims she cured terminal brain cancer through diet and lifestyle alone, has admitted she never had cancer. 
 
 
 
 “None of it’s true,” Gibson told the Australian Women’s Weekly in an interview to be published on Thursday. 
 
 “I don’t want forgiveness. I just think [speaking out] was the responsible thing to do. Above anything, I would like people to say, ‘OK, she’s human.’” 
 
 Gibson’s wellness empire, which included a mobile phone app called The Whole Pantry and a website and recipe book of the same name, began to fall apart in March when it was revealed she never made thousands of dollars in charity donations she promised off the back of money raised through her success. 
 
 Pseudoscience and strawberries: ‘wellness’ gurus should carry a health warning | Hadley Freeman Read more 
 
 Later that month, Gibson said she had been “wrongly” diagnosed with cancers she claimed to have in her blood, spleen, uterus and liver by a German magnetic therapist, but maintained her terminal brain cancer was real. 
 
 She refused to show journalists medical records or any proof to back her claims that by shunning conventional medicine, her brain cancer had been kept in check. 
 
 The Women’s Weekly interview is the first time Gibson has spoken to the media following questions being raised about her cancer claims. 
 
 “During the interviews, whenever challenged, Belle cried easily and muddled her words,” the Women’s Weekly reports. 
 
 “She says she is passionate about avoiding gluten, dairy and coffee, but doesn’t really understand how cancer works.” 
 
 When questions began to be asked about Gibson’s story last month, she experienced a swift backlash on social media, with many people who followed her saying they felt betrayed. She began deleting her social media accounts and blogposts about her various illnesses. 
 
 Many criticised Gibson for putting cancer sufferers in danger by suggesting dietary approaches alone could successfully treat them. 
 
 Consumer Affairs Victoria is now investigating Gibson, while Penguin has ceased publishing her recipe book and the Apple store no longer offers her app for download. 
 
 
 
 In the interview, Gibson says she has an upcoming meeting with Penguin. However, Penguin communications manager Camilla Subeather told Guardian Australia on Thursday no such meeting had been arranged. 
 
 “We are disappointed that, despite several requests for clarification regarding recent allegations made against her, Belle is yet to respond to us directly,” she said. 
 
 “We have read with interest her recent interview and are considering our rights and options as set out in our agreement with her. We have no knowledge of the forthcoming meeting she refers to.” 
 
 
 
 News Ltd, which appears to have obtained a full copy of the Women’s Weekly interview ahead of publication, reports Gibson fails to explain fully why she lied, saying only that she had a difficult childhood. 
 
 Her false illness claims date back to 2009, when she claimed on an internet forum to have undergone multiple heart surgeries and to have died on the operating table. 
 
 In the days following the allegations against her, Gibson posted on social media that she was being bullied and had changed “thousands of lives for the better”. 
 
 Meanwhile, the media was criticised for running glowing articles about Gibson prior to the allegations coming to light without properly checking the facts of her story. ||||| Image copyright 9 News / 60 Minutes Image caption Belle Gibson falsely claimed alternative therapies helped her beat cancer after conventional medicine failed 
 
 An Australian wellness blogger who falsely claimed to have cancer has been fined A$410,000 (£240,000, $322,000) for misleading her readers. 
 
 Belle Gibson, 25, gained fame in Australia after she claimed to have beaten brain cancer using natural remedies and nutrition. 
 
 She launched a successful app and cookbook, but later admitted the diagnosis was made up. 
 
 Ms Gibson was found guilty of five breaches of consumer law in March. 
 
 A judge at the time said Ms Gibson may have "genuinely" believed what she was saying, and might have suffered from "delusions" about her health. 
 
 She did not attend the Federal Court of Australia in Melbourne on Thursday to hear the penalty handed down. 
 
 'Pitching' for sympathy 
 
 Ms Gibson built a social media empire off claims she had cured her cancer with Ayurvedic medicine, oxygen therapy and a gluten and refined sugar-free diet. 
 
 "Her 'pitch' overwhelmingly used groups likely to evoke sympathy because of their vulnerabilities - young girls, asylum seekers, sick children," Justice Debbie Mortimer said in March. 
 
 Ms Gibson's app and cookbook, both called The Whole Pantry, made A$420,000, and she had promised to deliver a share of the profits to several charities. 
 
 But the money allegedly never reached the charities and cracks began to appear in Ms Gibson's story, leading her to admit her claims were untrue. ||||| The interactive transcript could not be loaded. 
 
 Rating is available when the video has been rented. 
 
 This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. ||||| Federal court orders disgraced wellness blogger to pay penalty after she sold a cookbook and app after claiming to have cured cancer naturally 
 
 The disgraced wellness blogger Belle Gibson has been ordered by the federal court in Melbourne to repay $410,000 to the state of Victoria. 
 
 For the past few months the court had been struggling to decide on an appropriate penalty for Gibson, after she sold thousands of copies of her cookbook and wellness app off the back of false claims she cured numerous cancers through following a healthy lifestyle. 
 
 'None of it’s true': wellness blogger Belle Gibson admits she never had cancer Read more 
 
 The 25-year-old has failed to show up to court since proceedings brought against her by Consumer Affairs Victoria began last year and has also not responded to evidence before the court or submitted her own. 
 
 Consumer Affairs Victoria brought the case, and its legal counsel told federal court justice Debra Mortimer on Thursday morning that Gibson could face a maximum penalty of $1.1m for contravening five consumer laws. 
 
 But in June Mortimer said there was no point in issuing a significant fine against a person or company if they had no means of paying that penalty. In making her order on Thursday, Mortimer said Gibson would be able to pay the penalty in instalments. 
 
 Gibson’s product, The Whole Pantry, included a website, mobile phone app and recipe book of the same name. Her story of shunning conventional medicine and curing herself with food began to fall apart in 2015 when it was revealed she had not made thousands of dollars in charity donations she promised off the back of money raised through her success. 
 
 In an interview with the Australian Women’s Weekly in 2016, Gibson admitted she never had cancer at all, saying: “None of it’s true.” 
 
 On Monday night Mortimer said her executive assistant had received an email from Gibson in response to notification that the penalty would be handed down on Thursday. Gibson simply responded: “Thank you for your update. Confirming receipt of your email. Much appreciated, Belle.” She was not present in court for the judgment. 
 
 Belle Gibson mimicked countless fake healers. They aren't delusional | Ranjana Srivastava Read more 
 
 Mortimer ordered Gibson to pay a penalty of $90,000 for her false claims that she would make donations for the sale of her app; $90,000 for false claims her company would make charity donations; $50,000 for false claims that following her app launch she would donate to charity; $150,000 for false claims that she would make donations to the Schwartz family, whose son suffered brain cancer; and $30,000 for false claims that she would donate to charity off the back of a Mother’s Day event. 
 
 “I note also that Ms Gibson has already been ordered to pay a percentage of the director’s [of Consumer Affairs Victoria] legal costs of this proceeding, fixed at $30,000,” Mortimer’s judgment read. 
 
 
 
 “If Ms Gibson were to actually pay the pecuniary penalties imposed (whether by instalments or otherwise), in the court’s respectful opinion … it may be appropriate for consideration to be given to whether there is a mechanism by which some or all of the funds can be donated to some or all of the organisations, and people, Ms Gibson had promised would receive donations. 
 
 “In that way, some good might still come for the vulnerable people, and the organisations supporting them, which were indirectly drawn into this unconscionable sequence of events.”