Source: Multi-News

Fantasia -- Police Report Cites 'Suicide' Attempt 
 
 The police who responded to Fantasia Barrino 's home last night were told the " American Idol " champ had attempted to commitby ingesting pills ... this according the police report obtained by TMZ.According to the report, cops received a 911 call at 10:13 PM last night ... and responded to Fantasia's home in North Carolina.Once they arrived on the scene, they listed her injury as "serious" and then transported her to a local hospital. ||||| Fantasia is in stable condition at a North Carolina hospital after taking an overdose of "aspirin and a sleep aid," according to the manager for the former "American Idol" champ. 
 
 FILE - In this Jan. 6, 2010 file photo, recording artist Fantasia Barrino poses for a portrait in New York. (AP Photo/Jeff Christensen, file) (Associated Press) 
 
 The overdose came days after the singer was named in court documents by Paula Cook, who accused Fantasia of having an affair with her husband, Antwaun Cook. 
 
 Brian Dickens, Fantasia's manager, said in a statement Tuesday that winner was "overwhelmed by the lawsuit and the media attention." 
 
 "Last night, Fantasia was hospitalized. She took an overdose of aspirin and a sleep aid. Her injuries are not life threatening. She was dehydrated and exhausted at the time," he said. His statement did not specify where she was taken and he did not immediately return a call seeking comment 
 
 In the statement, Dickens acknowledged that Fantasia had a relationship with Cook for 11 months, but said that Fantasia believed Cook when he said "he was not happy in his marriage and his heart was not in it. She believed him when he told her he and Mrs. Cook were separated late in the summer of 2009." 
 
 After reading the filing from Paula Cook, Dickens said "there is plenty (Fantasia) does not know" and added that she's heartbroken over "any pain she may have caused." 
 
 Fantasia, who won the "American Idol" crown in 2004, is due to release her third album, "Back to Me," on Aug. 24. She was supposed to do promotion for the album this week; a Wednesday interview with The Associated Press was canceled earlier Tuesday. 
 
 Since winning "Idol," the North Carolina resident has endured success as well as difficult times. While she's had both platinum and gold albums and starred on Broadway in "The Color Purple," she fell into legal troubles that almost forced her to lose her home in 2008. 
 
 A VH1 reality show, "Fantasia For Real," debuted earlier this year, chronicling her struggles as a single mother trying to support her family, as well as her attempts to jump-start her career, which has sagged in recent years. 
 
 ___ 
 
 Online: 
 
 http://www.fantasiaofficial.com/