Source: Multi-News

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption An eyewitness to the Cambrils shooting described what happened to Radio 4's Today programme 
 
 Spanish police say they have shot dead five suspected terrorists in the town of Cambrils in a second vehicle attack, hours after another in Barcelona killed 13 people and injured dozens. 
 
 Police said the men were linked to the Barcelona attack, which so-called Islamic State said it had carried out. 
 
 Police are still hunting the man who drove his van into crowds on Las Ramblas in Barcelona on Thursday. 
 
 Spanish media have named Moussa Oukabir, 18, as the suspect. 
 
 He is the brother of Driss Oukabir, whose documentation was allegedly used to rent the van involved in the attack. 
 
 Spanish PM Mariano Rajoy has condemned what he called a "jihadist attack". He has announced three days of national mourning and a minute's silence was held at noon (10:00 GMT) on Friday. 
 
 What happened in Cambrils? 
 
 Image copyright AFP Image caption The vehicle overturned in the attack 
 
 Seven people, including a police officer, were wounded when a car was driven into them early on Friday, Catalan emergency services said. One later died in hospital. 
 
 The attackers' vehicle overturned and when the men got out they were quickly fired upon by police, media say. One was reportedly brandishing a knife. 
 
 The men were wearing what appeared to be explosive belts, police said, and a series of controlled explosions was carried out. The belts proved to be fake, Catalan regional head Carles Puigdemont later told local radio. 
 
 Police say the situation in Cambrils - a popular seaside resort 110km (70 miles) south-west of Barcelona - is now under control. 
 
 What happened on Las Ramblas? 
 
 A rented van was driven down Las Ramblas, a popular street in the centre of the city on Thursday afternoon, mowing down tourists and locals. 
 
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption What was it like to be caught up in the Barcelona attack? 
 
 Witnesses said the van deliberately targeted people, weaving from side to side. 
 
 The driver of the van, believed to be the sole attacker, fled on foot and is still being hunted by police. 
 
 Las Ramblas is a central boulevard that runs 1.2km (0.75 miles) through the centre of Barcelona from the city's Plaça de Catalunya (Catalonia Square) to the Christopher Columbus monument at the seafront. 
 
 A businessman from New Orleans, who was just arriving in a taxi in Las Ramblas, said: "I heard a crowd screaming. It sounded like they were screaming for a movie star. 
 
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Footage shows police surrounding a white van moments after the attack 
 
 "I saw the van. It had already been busted on the front. It was weaving left and right, trying to hit people as fast as possible. There were people lying on the ground." 
 
 Kevin Kwast, who is on holiday in Barcelona with his family, said: "I was eating with my family in La Boqueria market very near where the crash occurred. 
 
 "Hundreds of people started stampeding through the market... we started running with them going outside right into where casualties were already on the ground. 
 
 "Police pushed us into a money transfer shop and we've been sheltering there for over an hour." 
 
 Who were the victims? 
 
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Footage captures people using a shop as an escape route on Las Ramblas 
 
 Citizens of some 24 countries were killed or injured in the Las Ramblas attack, the Catalan government has said. 
 
 Confirmed dead: 
 
 Spaniard Francisco López Rodríguez, who was in his 60s 
 
 Italian Bruno Gulotta, 35 
 
 Unnamed Italian 
 
 Unnamed Belgian 
 
 What do we know about the victims? 
 
 France's foreign ministry said on Friday that 26 French nationals were injured, with at least 11 in a serious condition. 
 
 Thirteen German citizens were wounded, some seriously. A five-year-old Irish boy suffered a broken leg. 
 
 Hong Kong, Taiwan and Greece are among those saying their citizens were injured. Pakistani, Philippine, Venezuelan, Australian, Romanian, Peruvian, Dutch, Danish, Algerian and Chinese nationals were also among the casualties, officials said. 
 
 Have arrests been made? 
 
 Image copyright Spanish National Police/ HANDOUT Image caption Police released this photo of Driss Oukabir, whose documents were used to rent the van 
 
 Two people were detained on Thursday over the Las Ramblas attack, but not the driver of the van. 
 
 One of those held is Driss Oukabir, whose documents were used to rent the van, local media say. 
 
 They say he is in his 20s, and was born in Morocco. However, latest reports suggest he has told police he was not involved, and that his documents were stolen. 
 
 Spanish media report that his younger brother, Moussa, rented two vans, the one used in the attack and another found hours later in the town of Vic, north of Barcelona, and intended as a getaway vehicle. 
 
 The second man arrested was born in Melilla, the autonomous Spanish city on the north coast of Africa. He has not been named. 
 
 On Friday, police announced a third arrest had been made in the Catalan town of Ripoll. 
 
 So-called Islamic State has said it was behind the Las Ramblas attack, saying in a brief statement carried by its Amaq news outlet that it was carried out by "Islamic State soldiers". The group gave no further evidence or details to back this claim. 
 
 What was the timeline of events? 
 
 Alcanar, Wednesday evening: An explosion rips through a house in the small town, 200km south of Barcelona. One person dies. Police chief Josep Lluis Trapero said it appeared the residents at the house had been "preparing an explosive device". A Catalan government official says a cell may have intended to use gas canisters in the Las Ramblas attack 
 
 An explosion rips through a house in the small town, 200km south of Barcelona. One person dies. Police chief Josep Lluis Trapero said it appeared the residents at the house had been "preparing an explosive device". A Catalan government official says a cell may have intended to use gas canisters in the Las Ramblas attack Barcelona, Thursday 16:50 (14:50 GMT) : A white Fiat van drives down Las Ramblas in central Barcelona, killing 13 people and injuring scores. The driver flees on foot 
 
 : A white Fiat van drives down Las Ramblas in central Barcelona, killing 13 people and injuring scores. The driver flees on foot Vic, Thursday 18:30: Police find a second van, thought to be a getaway vehicle, in the town, 80km north of Barcelona 
 
 Police find a second van, thought to be a getaway vehicle, in the town, 80km north of Barcelona Sant Just Desvern, Thursday 19:30: A car is driven into officers at a checkpoint on the outskirts of Barcelona. A man is found dead in the car but the interior ministry denies earlier reports he was killed by police gunfire. The dead man is not believed to be linked to the Las Ramblas attack, officials say, but investigations are ongoing 
 
 A car is driven into officers at a checkpoint on the outskirts of Barcelona. A man is found dead in the car but the interior ministry denies earlier reports he was killed by police gunfire. The dead man is not believed to be linked to the Las Ramblas attack, officials say, but investigations are ongoing Cambrils, Friday 01:00: A second vehicle attack takes place in the resort south of Barcelona. Police kill five suspects said to be linked to the Las Ramblas attack 
 
 Trump pushes debunked 'pig's blood' myth, hours after Barcelona attack 
 
 Analysis: A worrying trend 
 
 Gordon Corera, BBC News security correspondent 
 
 Barcelona is just the latest European city to witness the terrible effects of a vehicle attack on an iconic or "soft" target. 
 
 In Nice a year ago, Bastille Day celebrations were targeted, then a Christmas market in Berlin. In London, Westminster and London Bridge, as well as Finsbury Park, saw cars and vans used as weapons. 
 
 In the UK, new barriers have been put in place to mitigate some of the risks at key locations and there is discussion of imposing checks on those renting vans, but security services in Britain - as well as across Europe - are all too aware that there are limits to what they can do to spot and stop those planning murder in this way. 
 
 The weapons employed are readily available and there is little or no training, co-ordination or planning required. This means there are few points where individuals can be spotted by the intelligence services. 
 
 Although so-called Islamic State has released a statement saying what it calls its "soldiers" had carried out the Barcelona attack, it is not yet clear whether there was any direct link to the group or if they were simply inspired by its call to act. The language used often indicates the latter. 
 
 Either way, authorities will be bracing themselves for the possibility of further attacks of a similar nature. 
 
 Europe's deadly vehicle attacks ||||| A man caught in the panic of the terrorist attack in Cambrils described the scenes as like watching a "horror film". 
 
 Fitzroy Davies, who earlier told how one of the attackers smiled at police, was visiting the town for a judo camp. 
 
 He told Sky News he saw one of the attackers get back on his feet, despite suffering police gunshots. He said: 
 
 "He came running up, he had silver stuff on him, he had a thing in his hand, and then somebody shouted 'police' and then within 30 seconds the police came. 
 
 "Next thing you know, they've drawn their guns and they were shouting at the guy and then shots were fired. 
 
 "He then fell down and then within two seconds he stood back up. He then stepped over the fence, charged the police again and the police then gave some more shots and then he fell down again. 
 
 "I couldn't understand what he was saying but he was just shouting something and he was going up and down the street and the police were saying 'stop', it must have been 'stop, stop', or whatever, and he kept charging until, in the end, they shot him." 
 
 Mr Davies said the crazed attacker was behaving "like somebody who was on drugs". He said: 
 
 "He was just going up and down the street, like ranting, raving and he was - I don't know if he was all the ticket, I don't know because he was just going up and down. 
 
 "And then when he took the first round of shots he fell on the floor, and then within two seconds, I thought I was watching a film, one of them horror films, the guy just stood up. 
 
 "Just stood up, got back up, walked over the fence and started laughing at the police. 
 
 "And as he started laughing at the police, he was walking to them and the police started to step backwards and then they shot him again. And that's when he went down." 
 
 Mr Davies said the terrorist appeared to be holding some kind of device, later thought to have been a mock trigger for a fake suicide vest. 
 
 "I think it did it's job," he said. "It made everyone fearful. And I think that's what they were looking for. 
 
 "He had something in his hand and at first everybody kept on thinking he's got something. And that's why everybody was running." ||||| Spain was hit by its worst terrorist attack in more than a decade on Thursday, when a van driver plowed into dozens of people enjoying a sunny afternoon on one of Barcelona’s most famous thoroughfares, killing at least 13 people and leaving 80 bloodied on the pavement. 
 
 Hours later, the Catalan police said they foiled a second vehicular attack, in the seaside town of Cambrils, 70 miles to the south, fatally shooting four people. A fifth died later of wounds, the police said. The suspects appeared to be wearing explosive belts, though these devices were later found to be fake, police said. Six civilians and one police officer were injured during the episode, the Catalan emergency services said. 
 
 The Barcelona attack was at least the sixth time in the past few years that assailants using vehicles as deadly weapons have struck a European city. 
 
 The police cordoned off the Plaza de Cataluña and Las Ramblas in the heart of Barcelona, both tourist destinations, and began a chaotic pursuit for the attackers. ||||| It was with great sadness that I learned today that one Canadian was killed and four others injured during yesterday’s cowardly terrorist attack in Barcelona. 
 
 We join Spain and countries around the world in grieving the senseless loss of so many innocent people. 
 
 We must stand firm against the spread of hate and intolerance in all its forms. These violent acts that seek to divide us will only strengthen our resolve.” ||||| Barcelona (CNN) The perpetrators of the terror attacks in Barcelona and Cambrils originally planned to use explosive devices to wreak greater devastation but were apparently thwarted because their materials detonated prematurely, police said Friday. 
 
 A house in Alcanar, south of Barcelona, was destroyed in a blast Wednesday night -- hours before one attacker mowed down dozens of people in the heart of Barcelona , killing 13. A group of five attackers then drove into pedestrians in the town of Cambrils, killing one, in the early hours of Friday. 
 
 Catalan police chief Josep Lluis Trapero told reporters that explosives were found in the Alcanar property and that police "are working on the hypothesis that these attacks were being prepared in that house." 
 
 A source briefed on the investigation said a preliminary assessment of the Alcanar property indicated there were traces of the powerful explosive TATP in the rubble. 
 
 TATP has been used in numerous Islamist terrorist attacks carried out in Europe, including the November 2015 Paris attacks, the March 2016 Brussels bombings, the May Manchester bombing and a failed bomb attempt by an Islamist extremist at the Gare Centrale in Brussels in June. 
 
 The explosion meant the attackers were unable to use material they were planning to deploy in attacks in Barcelona, Cambrils and perhaps elsewhere, he said. The attack in Barcelona, capital of the Spanish region of Catalonia, was therefore "more rudimentary than they originally planned," Trapero said. 
 
 The revelations pointed to the alarming possibility that authorities knew nothing of an advanced plot to mount a spectacular terror attack until an accidental explosion at the perpetrators' base -- and despite this eye-catching setback the terror cell managed to carry out two further improvised attacks without impediment. 
 
 Key developments 
 
 -- Four people have been arrested: one of them in Alcanar and three in Ripoll. Three were Moroccan citizens and another was Spanish; they ranged in age from 21 to 34. None of them had been on authorities' radar for terrorism. Police said Friday they have identified three of the suspects, but didn't name them publicly. 
 
 -- People from at least 34 countries were among the injured in the attacks, Catalan authorities said. US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said an American citizen was among the dead. Two Italians were the first of the deceased victims to be named. Canadian PM Justin Trudeau said one of the dead was Canadian. Spain's Department of Interior said four Spaniards and one Portuguese national were killed. 
 
 -- Spain's Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy labeled the Barcelona attack "jihadi terrorism." Rajoy's government has declared three days of mourning across Spain. 
 
 -- The ISIS media wing, Amaq, has said the Barcelona attackers were "soldiers of the Islamic State," but stopped short of explicitly claiming responsibility for the attacks or providing evidence for their claims. 
 
 -- King Felipe, the Spanish head of state, led a moment's silence at Barcelona's Plaça de Catalunya -- near where the attack began. Crowds later joined in lengthy applause. "We are not afraid, we won't forget," they chanted. 
 
 King Felipe VI of Spain leads a moment of silence in Plaça de Catalunya on Friday. 
 
 An attack gone wrong 
 
 The first sign of the terror cell's activities -- although its significance was not immediately understood -- came Wednesday evening when the house in Alcanar was almost completely destroyed by an unexpected explosion. 
 
 One person, a Spanish national, died the in the blast, and another was seriously injured. Both were found inside the house. The injured man is one of the four suspects arrested. He was moved to a police station in Tortosa on Friday, Catalan police said. 
 
 Six other people were also injured in the explosion, according to a Catalan fire department report, no information was provided as to the identity of the six. 
 
 Police said Friday there were other "biological remains" found at the site, but it is unclear whether they belong to a different person. 
 
 The debris of a house in the village of Alcanar, Catalonia, is seen Thursday after it collapsed due to an explosion. 
 
 "They were trying to make explosives out of butane gas among other things," Trapero said. He speculated that "some sort of accident" caused the explosion, therefore avoiding greater catastrophe later. 
 
 Thwarted by the accidental explosion, and possibly alarmed at the attention it had drawn, it appears that the surviving members of the cell scrambled to mount an alternative plan. The next day at about 5 p.m., a rental van was driven at high speed from Barcelona's Plaça de Catalunya deep into the teeming crowds on the city's most famous thoroughfare, Las Ramblas. 
 
 "I saw people flying into the air and everyone was running into the shops on either side," witness Ali Shirazinia told CNN. 
 
 At least 13 people were killed and 120 injured. The driver of the van fled on foot. The Interior Ministry said Friday that 15 of the 59 people still hospitalized remain in critical condition. 
 
 The van used in the Barcelona attack was abandoned at the scene, August 18, 2017. 
 
 Hours later, as details of the atrocity in Barcelona were still emerging, five attackers drove an Audi A3 into several pedestrians in Cambrils, 120 kilometers (75 miles) south of Barcelona, early on Friday morning. Police engaged in a shootout with the attackers, and all five were shot dead, four of them by one officer. 
 
 A woman subsequently died from her injuries, Catalan emergency services said, taking the number of dead in both attacks to 14. Six others were injured, three seriously. 
 
 Photographs showed the black Audi, flipped upside down with its windows smashed out, being removed from the scene. 
 
 Catalan police later said they found an ax and knives in the car, and the attackers had fake explosive belts attached to them. Before being shot they had wounded one person in the face with a knife. Police were investigating whether one of the attackers was the driver of the van used in the Barcelona attack. 
 
 Police officers stand near an overturned car onto a platform at the spot where terrorists were intercepted by police in Cambrils, Friday, Aug. 18. 
 
 Alex Folch, 28, told CNN he saw the immediate aftermath of the shootout from his holiday apartment on the fifth floor of the Club Nautic Cambrils, on the Consulat de Mar. 
 
 He said he saw three people lying on the ground surrounded by police, one with what appeared to be "a metallic kind of belt" around the waist. 
 
 Folch said he could see snipers on the roof beside him and later heard controlled explosions conducted by police. 
 
 Police said later they have identified each attacker but they didn't release their names publicly. 
 
 The house in Alcanar appears crucial to the investigation. Trapero said several of its residents had hired some of the vehicles used in the Barcelona and Cambrils attacks. He added that "the investigation is centered on identifying those persons who were in that house." 
 
 A car that ran over police officers at a checkpoint in Barcelona later on Thursday was unconnected with the attacks, Trapero said. One of the occupants of the car was found to have been stabbed. 
 
 Shock and fear in Barcelona 
 
 The Catalan government said the Barcelona victims came from 34 countries. 
 
 The first to be identified was an Italian, Bruno Gulotta, who worked for Tom's Hardware Italia. He was a much-loved colleague with a partner and two young children, the company said. He had been on holiday in Barcelona with his family. The second victim named was another Italian, Luca Rosso. 
 
 Belgium's Foreign Ministry spokesman Jose de Pierpont said one Belgian was among those killed in the attack. 
 
 A 74-year-old Portuguese woman has also been identified by the Portuguese government as one of the victims in Barcelona. 
 
 Las Ramblas reopened Friday morning but reminders of the previous day's horror were all around. 
 
 In some outdoor cafés, full glasses of beer and sangria sat out on tables, left behind after people scattered. Overturned chairs and napkins were strewn on the street. Waiters were beginning to pick up the pieces as restaurants opened. 
 
 Flowers, candles and messages of solidarity piled up through the day at makeshift shrines along the street. 
 
 Some shocked residents and tourists had come to the normally bustling avenue to pay their respects to the attack victims. Others gathered for a march intended to show unity in the face of fear. 
 
 "It was an attack against humanity," Sandra Gregorio said after laying flowers at one of the many memorials that has sprung up. "Look at this street, Barcelonians are not afraid," her boyfriend Marc Guzmán added. "We have to be united, now more than ever." 
 
 Hajar Menssouri, a 24-year-old laboratory technician and student, told CNN: "I joined the march to show that fear would not divide us." 
 
 Earlier, resident Federico Colmenarejo, 32, walked along Las Ramblas in a daze. His apartment overlooks the street -- and he said a phone call from his grandmother at the time of the attack had saved his life because it had stopped him going out. 
 
 "Just to think how is it possible that I cross this street every day on my way to work. I can't believe it. In Barcelona this never happens," he told CNN. ||||| Injured people are treated in Barcelona, Spain, Thursday, Aug. 17, 2017 after a white van jumped the sidewalk in the historic Las Ramblas district, crashing into a summer crowd of residents and tourists... (Associated Press) 
 
 BARCELONA, Spain (AP) — Police on Friday shot and killed five people wearing fake bomb belts who staged a car attack in a seaside resort in Spain's Catalonia region hours after a van plowed into pedestrians on a busy Barcelona promenade, killing at least 13 people and injuring over 100 others. 
 
 Authorities said the back-to-back vehicle attacks — as well as an explosion earlier this week elsewhere in Catalonia— were connected and the work of a large terrorist group. Three people were arrested, but the driver of the van used in the Barcelona attack remained at large and the manhunt intensified for the perpetrators of the latest European rampage claimed by the Islamic State group. 
 
 Authorities were still reeling from Thursday's Barcelona attack when police in the popular seaside town of Cambrils, about 130 kilometers (80 miles) to the south, fatally shot five people near the town's boardwalk who had plowed into a group of tourists and locals with their blue Audi 3. Six people, including a police officer, were injured, though it wasn't clear how badly. 
 
 Catalonia's interior minister, Joaquim Forn, told Onda Cero radio that the five suspects killed in a subsequent shootout with police were wearing fake bomb belts. 
 
 "They were fakes, but very well made, and it wasn't until the bomb squad carried out the controlled explosion of one that they could determine they were fakes," he said. 
 
 The Audi and a damaged police car were towed from the scene Friday. 
 
 The Cambrils attack came hours after a white van veered onto Barcelona's picturesque Las Ramblas promenade and mowed down pedestrians, zig-zagging down the strip packed with locals and tourists from around the world. 
 
 Forn, told local radio RAC1 the Cambrils attack "follows the same trail. There is a connection." 
 
 He told Onda Cero that the Cambrils and Barcelona attacks were being investigated together, as well as a Wednesday night explosion in the town of Alcanar in which one person was killed. 
 
 "We are not talking about a group of one or two people, but rather a numerous group," he said. He added that the Alcanar explosion had been caused by butane tanks stored in a house, and that firefighters and police responding to the blast had been injured. 
 
 The Barcelona attack at the peak of Spain's tourist season left victims sprawled across the street, spattered with blood and writhing in pain from broken limbs. Others were ushered inside shops by officers with their guns drawn or fled in panic, screaming and carrying young children in their arms. 
 
 "It was clearly a terror attack, intended to kill as many people as possible," Josep Lluis Trapero, a senior police official for Spain's Catalonia region told reporters late Thursday. 
 
 The Islamic State group claimed responsibility, saying in a statement on its Aamaq news agency that the attack was carried out by "soldiers of the Islamic State" in response to the extremist group's calls for followers to target countries participating in the coalition trying to drive it from Syria and Iraq. 
 
 Cambrils Mayor Cami Mendoza said the town had taken precautions after the Barcelona attack, but that the suspects had centered their assault early Friday on the narrow path to Cambrils's boardwalk, which is usually packed with locals and tourists late into the evening. 
 
 "We were on a terrace, like many others," said bystander Jose Antonio Saez. "We heard the crash and intense gun shots, then the dead bodies on the floor, shot by the police. They had what looked like explosive belts on." 
 
 Others described scenes of panic, and found safety inside bars and restaurants until police had secured the area. 
 
 Local resident Markel Artabe said he was heading to the seafront to get an ice cream when he heard the shots. 
 
 "We began to run. We saw one person lying on the pavement with a shot in his head then 20-30 meters further on we saw two more people, who must have been terrorists as they had explosive belts around them. We were worried so we hid." 
 
 A third Barcelona suspect was arrested Friday in the northern town of Ripoll, where one of the two detained on Thursday had also been nabbed. The third arrest was made in Alcanar, where the gas explosion in a house was being investigated. 
 
 "There could be more people in Ripoll connected to the group," Forn told TV3 television, adding that police were focusing their investigation on identifying the five dead in Cambrils as well as the driver of the Barcelona van. 
 
 Police said the two suspects arrested Thursday were a Spanish national from Melilla, a Spanish-run Mediterranean seafront enclave in North Africa, and the other a Moroccan. 
 
 Spanish public broadcaster RTVE and other news outlets named one of the detained as Driss Oukabir, a French citizen of Moroccan origin. RTVE reported said Oukabir went to police in Ripoll to report that his identity documents had been stolen. Various Spanish media said the IDs with his name were found in the attack van and that he claimed his brother might have stolen them. 
 
 Media outlets ran photographs of Oukabir they said police had issued to identify one of the suspects. The regional police told The Associated Press that they had not distributed the photograph. They refused to say if he was one of the two detained. 
 
 The driver, however, remained at large. 
 
 "We don't know if the driver is still in Barcelona or not, or what direction he fled in," Forn, the Catalan interior minister, told SER Radio. "We had local police on the scene, but we were unable to shoot him, as the Ramblas were packed with people." 
 
 The Catalan regional government said people from 24 countries were among those killed and injured in Barcelona. 
 
 Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy called the killings a "savage terrorist attack" and said Spaniards "are not just united in mourning, but especially in the firm determination to beat those who want to rob us of our values and our way of life." 
 
 After the afternoon attack, Las Ramblas went into lockdown. Swarms of officers brandishing hand guns and automatic weapons launched a manhunt in the downtown district, ordering stores and cafes and public transport to shut down. 
 
 By Friday morning, the promenade had reopened to the public, and neighbors and tourist were allowed past police lines to go back to their homes and hotels. The city center remained under heavy surveillance. 
 
 At noon Friday, a minute of silence honoring the victims was to be observed at the Plaza Catalunya, near the top of the Ramblas where the van attack started. Rajoy declared three days of national mourning. 
 
 Similar vehicle attacks have been carried out at tourist sites in France, Germany, Sweden and Britain. 
 
 "London, Brussels, Paris and some other European cities have had the same experience. It's been Barcelona's turn today," said Carles Puigdemont, president of Catalonia's government. 
 
 The bloodshed was Spain's deadliest attack since 2004, when al-Qaida-inspired bombers killed 192 people in coordinated assaults on Madrid's commuter trains. In the years since, Spanish authorities have arrested nearly 200 jihadists. The only deadly attacks were bombings claimed by the Basque separatist group ETA that killed five people over the past decade but it declared a cease-fire in 2011. 
 
 "Unfortunately, Spaniards know the absurd and irrational pain that terrorism causes. We have received blows like this in recent years, but we also that terrorists can be beaten," Rajoy said. 
 
 ___ 
 
 Associated Press writers Ciaran Giles in Madrid, Albert Stumm in Barcelona, Barry Hatton in Lisbon and Alan Clendenning in Phoenix also contributed to this report. ||||| BARCELONA (Reuters) - The driver of the van that ploughed into crowds in Barcelona, killing 13 people, may still be alive and at large, Spanish police said on Friday, denying earlier media reports that he had been shot dead in a Catalan seaside resort. 
 
 Josep Lluis Trapero, police chief in Spain’s northeastern region of Catalonia, said he could not confirm the driver was one of five men killed. 
 
 “It is still a possibility but, unlike four hours ago, it is losing weight,” he told regional TV. 
 
 The driver abandoned the van and fled on Thursday after speeding along a section of Las Ramblas, the most famous boulevard in Barcelona, leaving a trail of dead and injured among the crowds of tourists and local residents thronging the street. 
 
 It was the latest of a string of attacks across Europe in the past 13 months in which militants have used vehicles as weapons - a crude but deadly tactic that is near-impossible to prevent and has now killed nearly 130 people in France, Germany, Britain, Sweden and Spain. 
 
 Suspected jihadists have been behind the previous attacks. Islamic State said the perpetrators of the latest one had been responding to its call to target countries involved in a U.S.-led coalition against the Sunni militant group. 
 
 Hours after the van rampage, police shot dead five people in the Catalan resort of Cambrils, 120 km (75 miles) down the coast from Barcelona, after they drove their car at pedestrians and police officers. 
 
 The five assailants had an axe and knives in their car and wore fake explosive belts, police said. A single police officer shot four of the men, Trapero said. 
 
 A Spanish woman was killed in the Cambrils incident, while several other civilians and a police officer were injured. 
 
 Trapero had earlier said the investigation was focussing on a house in Alcanar, southwest of Barcelona, which was razed by an explosion shortly before midnight on Wednesday. 
 
 Police believe the house was being used to plan one or several large-scale attacks in Barcelona, possibly using a large number of butane gas canisters stored there. 
 
 However, the apparently accidental explosion at the house forced the conspirators to scale down their plans and to hurriedly carry out more “rudimentary” attacks, Trapero said. 
 
 Graphic on Barcelona crash - tmsnrt.rs/2uQ48Lh 
 
 FOUR ARRESTS 
 
 Police have arrested four people in connection with the attacks - three Moroccans and a citizen of Spain’s North African enclave of Melilla, Trapero said. They were aged between 21 and 34, and none had a history of terrorism-related activities. 
 
 Another three people have been identified but are still at large. Spanish media said two of them may have been killed by the blast in Alcanar while one man of Moroccan origin was still sought by the police. 
 
 People gather around an impromptu memorial a day after a van crashed into pedestrians at Las Ramblas in Barcelona, Spain August 18, 2017. REUTERS/Sergio Perez 
 
 Police in France are looking for the driver of a white Renault Kangoo van that may have been used by people involved in the Barcelona attack, a French police source told Reuters. 
 
 WORST SINCE 2004 
 
 It was the deadliest attack in Spain since March 2004, when Islamist militants placed bombs on commuter trains in Madrid, killing 191 people. 
 
 Of 126 people injured in Barcelona and Cambrils, 65 were still in hospital and 17 were in a critical condition. The dead and injured came from 34 countries, ranging from France and Germany to Pakistan and the Philippines. 
 
 U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said an American citizen was confirmed dead, and Spanish media said several children were killed. 
 
 As Spain began three days of mourning, people returned to Las Ramblas, laying flowers and lighting candles in memory of the victims. Rajoy and Spain’s King Felipe visited Barcelona’s main square nearby to observe a minute’s silence. 
 
 Defiant crowds later chanted “I am not afraid” in Catalan. 
 
 Foreign leaders voiced condemnation and sympathy, including French President Emmanuel Macron, whose nation has suffered some of Europe’s deadliest recent attacks. 
 
 German Chancellor Angela Merkel, speaking after media reports that some Germans were among those killed, said Islamist terrorism “can never defeat us” and vowed to press ahead with campaigning for a general election in Germany in September. 
 
 Slideshow (21 Images) 
 
 King Mohammed VI of Morocco sent his condolences to Spain. 
 
 U.S. President Donald Trump, speaking by phone with Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy on Friday, pledged the full support of the United States in investigating the attacks in Barcelona and Cambrils and bringing the perpetrators to justice. 
 
 In a message to the cardinal of Barcelona, Pope Francis said the attack was “an act of blind violence that is a grave offence to the Creator”. 
 
 Polish Interior Minister Mariusz Blaszczak said the attack showed the European Union’s system of migrant relocation was wrong. “It is dangerous. Europe should wake up,” he said. “We are dealing here with a clash of civilisations.” ||||| This article is over 1 year old 
 
 Grandfather says Julian Cadman became separated from his mother, who is in a serious condition but stable condition in hospital 
 
 An urgent search is under way for a child with dual British nationality who is believed to be among the missing after the terror attacks in Spain, the UK prime minister has said. 
 
 
 
 Theresa May spoke after a British man living in Australia appealed for information about his seven-year-old grandson, Julian Alessandro Cadman, who became separated from his mother, Jom, during the chaos. 
 
 “Julian is seven years old and was out with Jom when they were separated, due to the recent terrorist activity. Please share if you have family or friends in Barcelona,” said Tony Cadman, whose Facebook profile says he lives in Australia and is originally from Dorset. 
 
 
 
 May told Sky News that Britain was “urgently looking into reports of a child believed missing, who is a British dual national”. She did not name him. 
 
 It has been reported that the child and his mother previously lived in Kent, and Tony Cadman posted a picture of Julian wearing a uniform from a British nursery school. 
 
 Barcelona and Cambrils attacks: 17 in critical condition as fourth arrest made – live updates Read more 
 
 May and the Foreign Office have confirmed that British nationals are among those injured, though they have not said how many. 
 
 Tony Cadman said Jom, his daughter-in-law, had been injured in the attack in Las Ramblas on Thursday, which left 13 people dead. He said she was in a serious but stable condition in hospital. 
 
 Julian’s father, Andrew Cadman, said he had spoken to his son only hours before he went missing. Cadman was travelling from Sydney to Barcelona on Friday to search for Julian. 
 
 The Australian foreign affairs minister, Julie Bishop, has said one Australian is missing and four others have been injured in the attack. 
 
 “We are concerned, but we are working closely with authorities to determine the whereabouts of the one Australian unaccounted for,” Bishop told reporters in Melbourne on Friday. 
 
 Barcelona victims: citizens from at least 24 countries among dead and injured Read more 
 
 Two New South Wales women are in hospital. One of those women, Sydney bank worker Suria Intan, is being treated at the Hospital Clinic in Barcelona. Intan works for the Commonwealth Bank and is a member of the Hillsong church. 
 
 She was due to return home this weekend after a three-week holiday with three girlfriends, Fairfax reported. 
 
 Two Victorian men – both of whom were hit by the attacker’s van – have been discharged after receiving treatment. 
 
 “We condemn in the strongest possible terms these brutal and cowardly attacks, and in the case of Las Ramblas, clearly designed to harm and affect tourists who were visiting the area,” Bishop said. 
 
 “The Australian government remains committed to ensuring that Australians are as safe as they can be, either overseas or here in Australia.” 
 
 Australia’s consular hotline has received more than 380 calls, with government advice updated to urge travellers to exercise caution and heed the directions of local authorities. 
 
 There are 2,000 Australians registered with the embassy as being in Spain, and roughly 20,000 Australians in Spain at any one time.