Source: Multi-News

From declaring "the beast is alive" to being "free at last," a recap of the actor's response to getting the axe from "Two and a Half Men." 
 
 Charlie Sheen reacted to getting fired from Two and a Half Men by Warner Bros. with a number of bizarre statements, including: 
 
 
 
 - An interview with TMZ.com after he climbed on the roof of Live Nation and waved around a machete and drank from a bottle labeled "Tiger Blood." When asked if he was excited about being released from his Two and a Half Men contract, he said, "Let me just say, free at last, free at last." His next plan: "I ain't gonna go to f---ing Disneyland, I'll tell you that much." 
 
 - A statement to NBC's Jeff Rossen: "I didn’t like that show anyway or those dumb bowling shirts they made me wear. Now I’m free.” 
 
 
 
 - Another 'Sheen's Korner' episode, in which he smoked a cigarette from his nose and drank: "We are in the middle of a movement here, an odyssey of epic proportions… My goal is the best one in the room, and people are starting to realize that. My plan is gold, theirs is s--t. And with my plan you're going to win, win, win." 
 
 
 
 - An interview with Access Hollywood's Billy Bush in which he claimed he was notified of being fired via text message: "I got a text or something. Here’s another thing -- these guys are such yellow cockroaches that they didn’t even have the decency to call me. I put 5 bill[ion] in their cheap suit pockets and another half a bil’ in what’s-his-cheese’s pockets and this is the f***ing respect I get?It’s just deplorable and they should be ashamed of themselves!” 
 
 
 
 - A statement to TMZ: "This is very good news. They continue to be in breach, like so many whales. It is a big day of gladness at the Sober Valley Lodge because now I can take all of the bazillions, never have to look at whatshiscock again and I never have to put on those silly shirts for as long as this warlock exists in the terrestrial dimension." 
 
 
 
 - A text to People.com: "Put yourself in my shoes for one warlock nanosecond. At some point there is nothing to say. Only war to wage … The winds are howling tonight. The gods are hungry. The beast is alive. And awake. And deadly." 
 
 ||||| Just hours ago, Warner Bros. Television officially fired Charlie Sheen from Two and a Half Men, and TMZ has obtained the barnburner of a letter that WB sent to Sheen’s lawyer Marty Singer to justify his termination. “At the outset, let us state the obvious: Your client has been engaged in dangerously self-destructive conduct and appears to be very ill,” the eleven-page letter begins before recounting Sheen’s outlandish public behavior from the past two weeks (there’s even a ten-page addendum filled with links to the negative online coverage the actor has received). Still, it isn’t all rehashed information; here are four new details we learned from a close read of the letter. 
 
 There were disastrous sitcom tapings 
 
 Though Sheen claims he was ready for work even when he missed rehearsals, the letter cites his “inability to deliver lines” as a reason for the Two and a Half Men shutdown, and takes issue with how Singer portrayed the period leading up to it: “You claim that Mr. Sheen was turning in ‘brilliant’ performances during this time. Not true. As outtakes of the filming show, Mr. Sheen had difficulty remembering his lines and hitting his marks. His conduct and condition created substantial tensions on the set. Mr. Sheen conceded in one or more of his numerous recent interviews that he sometimes showed up to work after not having slept and needed to move his mark to accommodate his need to ‘lean’ on something, for balance.” 
 
 Sheen may have had vanity-card approval 
 
 Maybe Sheen was okay with Lorre’s vanity cards after all? Despite the fact that he’s since sniped at Lorre for tweaking him with statements like “If Charlie Sheen outlives me, I’m gonna be really pissed,” the WB letter says that “Mr. Sheen himself approved” several of the vanity cards cited by Singer. 
 
 WB chartered a plane for rehab 
 
 On January 28, Sheen told CBS president Les Moonves that he would go to rehab the next day, so WB “had an airplane waiting to take him to such a facility.” Instead, Sheen refused to leave his home, which he then christened the “Sober Valley Lodge.” 
 
 Sheen violated a morals clause 
 
 Both Sheen and Singer have argued that there was no morals clause in the actor’s contract, but WB says that one section of the document allows the studio to refuse payment “if Producer in its reasonable but good faith opinion believes Performer has committed an act which constitutes a felony offense involving moral turpitude under federal, state or local laws, or is indicted or convicted of any such offense.” The example of moral turpitude cited here is “furnishing of cocaine to others,” but one imagines the WB wouldn’t have to think very long to come up with at least a few more. 
 
 Related: Charlie Sheen Fired From Two and a Half Men 
 
 Sheen’s Korner Is Not a Winner 
 
 The Argument You’re Having With Yourself About Charlie Sheen 
 
 The 15 Funniest Charlie Sheen Clickables: Laugh While You Still Can! 
 
 The Media Betting on Charlie Sheen Dying Soon 
 
 The Charlie Sheen Glossary: ‘Winning,’ Warlocks, and More ||||| New Charlie Sheen Texts: 'The Beast Is Alive' 
 
 Now officially fired from Two and a Half Men as of Monday, Charlie Sheen is gearing up for his confrontation with Warner Bros.In a text to PEOPLE, Sheen writes: "Put yourself in my shoes for one warlock nanosecond. At some point there is nothing to say. Only war to wage … The winds are howling tonight. The gods are hungry. The beast is alive. And awake. And deadly."He's also reaching for a new weapon – a machete.After encountering paparazzi after a business meeting to discuss merchandising with Live Nation in Beverly Hills Monday, Sheen – accompanied by one of his so-called "Goddesses," Natalie Kenley – made his way to the roof of the building, reached into his suit jacket, whipped out his large, shiny blade and frantically waved it in the air. (See video clip below.)In a message, Sheen, 45, added that his machete would be used to destroy anyone who messed with his family.While Sheen has threatened to sue Warner Bros., which produces Two and a Half Men, the studio stated it intends to make Sheen pay for all of the show's lost revenue since it's been placed on hiatus . Sheen manager Mark Burg tells PEOPLE exclusively: "It's sad for the fans that enjoyed the show for the last eight years. I'm sorry it's come to this. I guess a judge and jury will decide the final outcome ... The show might not be coming back, but the final chapter has yet to be written."Please note: Comments have been suspended temporarily as we explore better ways to serve you. Your opinion is important to us; you can find current discussions at facebook.com/peoplemag. ||||| If it were even possible to be more frightened for Charlie Sheen , now would be the time. The recently unemployed Sheen headed to the rooftop of the Live Nation building with "goddess" Natalie Kenly yesterday after he reportedly had a meeting there.Sheen waved his machete over the crowd below while smoking cigarettes and drinking out of a bottle full of red liquor labeled tiger blood.The photos pretty much speak for themselves so check out Charlie's escapade after the jump and a see the video here.