Source: Multi-News

A year after a video was posted to YouTube showing a man riding a moose, two Fort St. John, B.C., men have been charged under the Wildlife Act. 
 
 The video, shot from a motor boat, caused an uproar on social media. 
 
 It shows a moose being chased across a shallow body of water, before a man jumps onto the animal and rides it for 15 seconds before falling off. 
 
 Others on the boat can be heard laughing. 
 
 In a Facebook post Thursday, the Conservation Officer Service says that a yearlong investigation has led to two suspects being charged with three counts, including harassing wildlife, attempting to capture wildlife and hunting big game while the animal is swimming. 
 
 The men were tracked down after the body of water in the video was identified as Tuchodi Lakes near Fort Nelson. 
 
 The men — who were not named — are due to appear in court in Fort Nelson on Aug. 8. ||||| Conservation Officers have charged two Fort St. John men with harassing wildlife after they filmed themselves jumping onto the back of a moose on a lake near Fort Nelson. 
 
 In June 2015, the B.C. Conservation Officer Service was forwarded a video of a man jumping from the prow of a boat onto the back of a swimming moose and riding it for several seconds. Wolftracker TV, a conservation group, posted the video on YouTube, generating national media attention. As of this post, the video had more than two million views. 
 
 article continues below 
 
 Officers later identified the lake as Tuchodi Lakes north of Fort St. John. Investigators believed the video had been taken the previous summer, based on snowpack on the mountains surrounding the lake. 
 
 A conservation group, Wolftracker TV, posted the video on YouTube last year, generating a flurry of media attention. - See more at: http://www.princegeorgecitizen.com/news/local-news/two-charged-in-moose-rider-incident-1.2291798#sthash.ZICiPIFf.dpuf 
 
 A conservation group, Wolftracker TV, posted the video on YouTube last year, generating a flurry of media attention. - See more at: http://www.princegeorgecitizen.com/news/local-news/two-charged-in-moose-rider-incident-1.2291798#sthash.ZICiPIFf.dpuf 
 
 A conservation group, Wolftracker TV, posted the video on YouTube last year, generating a flurry of media attention. - See more at: http://www.princegeorgecitizen.com/news/local-news/two-charged-in-moose-rider-incident-1.2291798#sthash.ZICiPIFf.dpuf 
 
 A conservation group, Wolftracker TV, posted the video on YouTube last year, generating a flurry of media attention. - See more at: http://www.princegeorgecitizen.com/news/local-news/two-charged-in-moose-rider-incident-1.2291798#sthash.ZICiPIFf.dpuf 
 
 "As a result of the year-long COS investigation, a report to Crown Counsel was submitted recommending charges against two males from Fort St. John," the service wrote in a release. 
 
 In a conference call with media June 30, Conservation Officer deputy chief Chris Doyle announced charges had been laid "in the moose rider investigation." 
 
 The men have been charged with harassing wildlife with the use of a boat, attempting to capture wildlife and "hunting big game that is swimming." 
 
 The two will appear in Fort Nelson Provincial Court August 8. According to court records, they are Bradley Dale Crook, born 1985, and Jaysun Allan Pinkerton, born 1983. 
 
 —this is a developing story that will be updated as information becomes available. With files from the Prince George Citizen. ||||| Published on Jun 20, 2015 
 
 EXCELLENT NEWS!!! 
 
 
 
 CHARGED 
 
 
 
 In June 2015 the COS received a public complaint relating to a video posted on social media of a male jumping from a boat onto the back of a moose. The COS identified the lake in the video as, Tuchodi Lakes near the town of Fort Nelson, BC. 
 
 As a result of the year-long COS investigation, a Report to Crown Counsel was submitted recommending charges against 2 males from Fort St. John. The two suspects have now been charged with 3 counts under The Wildlife Act for the following: 
 
 • S 27(3) harass wildlife with the use of a boat; 
 
 • S 29 attempt to capture wildlife; and 
 
 • S 30 hunt big game that is swimming. 
 
 A First appearance date was set for August 08, 2016 at 14:00 in Fort Nelson Provincial Court. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This moron is going to be charged with harassing wildlife. 
 
 
 
 This is what NOT to do. 
 
 
 
 Yes- this has been reported to the CO service