Source: Multi-News

This is the first time I have seen June Steenkamp smile. She is sitting at the far side of a long wooden table overlooking a swimming pool in the shady courtyard of a guesthouse, which has become her second home in Pretoria. 
 
 The avenues outside are flush with jacaranda blossoms. Pupils from Pretoria Boys High School, which is just across the road, are trickling through the gates in their old-fashioned uniforms: short-sleeved khaki shirts and ties, matching khaki shorts and tan socks pulled up to their knees. 
 
 It was as a pupil there that her daughter’s killer, Oscar Pistorius, first discovered he could run. 
 
 June Steenkamp has stayed in this small, discreet guesthouse many times since March, when South Africa’s national hero went on trial… ||||| REUTERS Oscar Pistorius and his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp. File photo: Thembani Makhubele 
 
 Johannesburg - Oscar Pistorius and his law-graduate girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp did not have sex, her mother June Steenkamp wrote in her book, the Sunday Times reported. 
 
 In “Reeva: a Mother's Story”, June Steenkamp wrote that her daughter confided in her that although they spent nights together, they did not have sex because she “was scared to take the relationship to that level”. 
 
 Speaking about the athlete, she wrote: “To look at him now, he's a pathetic figure. He looks haunted. He's already been punished in a way. 
 
 “Whatever is in his head is in his head forever. He will have to live with that.” 
 
 Pistorius was sentenced to prison for five years for the culpable homicide of Steenkamp. He shot her through a locked toilet door in his Pretoria home on February 14, 2013, thinking she was an intruder. 
 
 Sunday Times reported that June Steenkamp wrote that she did not believe Pistorius's version. 
 
 “He said pulling the trigger was 'an accident'. What? Four times an accident? He said Reeva did not scream, but she would definitely have screamed. I know my daughter as she was very vocal,” she wrote. 
 
 “There is no doubt in our minds that something went horribly wrong, something upset her so terribly that she hid behind a locked door with two mobile phones.” 
 
 In the book, June Steenkamp dissects every text, tweet and email in the three month relationship, looking for hidden meaning, according to the report. 
 
 Steenkamp, 68, and her husband Barry Steenkamp, 71, will feature in Monday’s edition of UK celebrity magazine Hello. 
 
 The British media reported that June Steenkamp believes Pistorius “would have killed someone sooner or later” and that her daughter’s “bad luck” conspired against her. 
 
 In the seven-month trial, Pistorius was cleared of murdering his girlfriend, Reeva, but found guilty of culpable homicide and sentenced to five years in prison. 
 
 In an interview with The Times magazine, June Steenkamp describes Pistorius as: “moody”, “volatile”, “arrogant”, “combustible”, as well as “trigger-happy”, “possessive”, “gun-toting”, “vague”, “shifty” and “evasive”. 
 
 The newspaper said Steenkamp claimed that Pistorius had shot her daughter “in a jealous rage, then finished her off with three more bullets so she ‘couldn’t tell the world what really happened’.” 
 
 She said her daughter’s death haunts her at night – she regularly wakes up around 3am, the time Reeva died at Pistorius’s home. 
 
 “Why decide to say sorry to me in a televised trial in front of the whole world? I was unmoved by his apology,” she writes. 
 
 “I felt if I appeared to be sorry for him at this stage of his trial on the charge of premeditated murder, it would, in the eyes of others, lessen the awfulness of what he had done.” 
 
 Meanwhile a snippet and photos have been published on Hello’s website, announcing the magazine had the “world exclusive interview moments after the trial ended in South Africa” on Tuesday. 
 
 June Steenkamp told Hello the court’s decision to send Pistorius to jail “was the best sentence we could have expected”. 
 
 Steenkamp said she “believe(s) Oscar expected to go to prison” by the time his seven-month trial concluded. She told the magazine: “It’s been a terrible, long journey”. 
 
 “He was almost resigned to what was coming. It was obvious in the court from his manner; he was calm and wasn’t performing,” she said. 
 
 She said she and her husband were still coming to terms with “the vision of Reeva suffering this terrible trauma”. 
 
 Blood-splattered images of the crime scene were exhibited during the Pistorius trial. 
 
 Steenkamp added: “We’re not looking for vengeance or for him to get hurt; we’re just happy because he’s going to be punished for what he’s done. 
 
 “He may come out early on good behaviour, but by the time he’s served that time, it will have taught him that he can’t go around doing things like that.” 
 
 His five-year sentence has been criticised by some as too lenient. 
 
 But Reeva’s parents told ITV’s Good Morning Britain they accepted the sentence and “don’t want revenge”. They said their daughter’s Valentine’s Day death last year remained shrouded in mystery, and “only Oscar knows” the truth. 
 
 After sentencing, Pistorius was sent to the hospital section of the Kgosi Mampuru prison in Pretoria. He reportedly cried himself to sleep on his first night in jail. 
 
 The athlete’s fans meanwhile have written supportive messages on his website. One fan, Noluthando, wrote: “Oscar you made us proud in the world by your courage. Please keep strong.” 
 
 Another, Carina, wrote: “I feel so sorry for Oscar. He really doesn’t deserve to spend the rest of his life in jail. He’s a great guy… ” 
 
 Weekend Argus and Sapa 
 
 Related Stories ||||| POOL/REUTERS June (l.) and Barry Steenkamp seen during the sentencing hearing of Olympic and Paralympic track star Oscar Pistorius in October. POOL/REUTERS Pistorius was given a five-year sentence for Steenkamp’s death, but could serve as little as 10 months. Previous Next 
 
 Enlarge 
 
 Reeva Steenkamp never had sex with Oscar Pistorius and was about to leave him when he gunned her down through a bathroom door, her mother claims. 
 
 June Steenkamp told the Sunday Times of London magazine that her daughter "was scared to take the relationship to that level" and had avoided getting physical with the Paralympian known as the Blade Runner. 
 
 “She wouldn’t want to sleep with Oscar if she wasn’t sure,” she said. “I believe their relationship was coming to an end. In her heart of hearts, she didn’t think it was making either of them happy.” 
 
 In her memoir, "Reeva: A Mother's Story,” June says the couple had spent several nights together but never had sex. The 68-year-old believes the rocky, three month-old relationship was over and that Reeva planned to leave him Valentine’s Day 2013, the night she was killed. 
 
 "Her clothes were packed. There's no doubt in our minds: she decided to leave Oscar that night," she said. 
 
 FRENNIE SHIVAMBU/EPA Reeva Steenkamp (l.) with Olympian Oscar Pistorius, who was convicted of culpable homicide for shooting her to death on Valentine’s Day 2013. STR/EPA June Steenkamp's book goes on sale Nov. 6. Previous Next 
 
 Enlarge 
 
 She added that if Pistorius — whom she described as “volatile”, “combustible” and “trigger-happy” — hadn’t killed Reeva, the 27-year-old would have killed someone else "sooner or later." 
 
 Reeva, 29, was shot dead by Pistorius, a double amputee who uses prosthetics to walk and run, as she huddled inside a bathroom. The fallen Olympic runner has stood by his claim that he shot four times through the locked door because he thought there was an intruder in his Pretoria home. 
 
 Reeva's mother, though, claims that Pistorius, who is serving a five-year sentence for culpable homicide, lied in court and knew he was actually firing at Reeva. 
 
 “There is no doubt in our minds that something went horribly wrong, something upset her so terribly that she hid behind a locked door with two mobile phones,” June writes. 
 
 Amazon ‘Reeva: A Mother's Story.’ 
 
 Convicted of culpable homicide last week, Pistorius will be able to seek parole after 10 months behind bars, and then apply to serve out the remainder of his sentence at home. 
 
 The marathon eight-month trial drew international attention to South Africa and featured the country’s most famous athlete and a gorgeous young supermodel. 
 
 Reeva’s parents, June and Barry Steenkamp, told a newspaper that they they never met Pistorius while the two dated. 
 
 June Steenkamp’s book is due out Nov. 6. ||||| Image copyright EPA Image caption Reeva Steenkamp's relationship was Pistorius was "coming to an end", her mother says 
 
 It was bad luck Reeva Steenkamp met Oscar Pistorius, her mother has said, as the "volatile" athlete "would have killed someone sooner or later". 
 
 Speaking to The Times, June Steenkamp calls Pistorius "pathetic", "moody", "gun-toting" and "possessive". 
 
 She rejects both his apology and his version of events, but admits: "He's the only one who knows the truth." 
 
 Pistorius is serving five years for the culpable homicide of girlfriend Reeva. He could be out in 10 months. 
 
 The South African athlete was cleared of murder. 
 
 'About to leave' 
 
 June Steenkamp told The Times, which is serialising her book, Reeva: A Mother's Story, which is to be published on 6 November, that Reeva had told her the couple had not yet entered a sexual relationship and had "nagging doubts about their compatibility". 
 
 She says: "She had confided to me that she hadn't slept with him. They'd shared a bed, but she was scared to take the relationship to that level. 
 
 Media caption Judge Thokozile Masipa hands down the sentence 
 
 "She wouldn't want to sleep with Oscar if she wasn't sure. I believe their relationship was coming to an end. In her heart of hearts, she didn't think it was making either of them happy." 
 
 Ms Steenkamp, 68, who was not called to testify at the trial, says this may have played a part in what happened on the night of the shooting, Valentine's Day last year. 
 
 She rejects his version of events, that there was no row and that he had thought there was an intruder in the toilet cubicle when he fired four shots through the door "without thinking". 
 
 "There is no doubt in our minds that something went horribly wrong, something upset her so terribly that she hid behind a locked door with two mobile phones," June writes. 
 
 Media caption June Steenkamp speaks after the sentencing 
 
 Other words she uses to describe Pistorius are "arrogant", "moody", "combustible", "trigger-happy", "vague", "evasive" and "shifty". 
 
 She believes Reeva, 29, was about to leave Pistorius, 27. 
 
 She says: "Her clothes were packed. There is no doubt in our minds: she had decided to leave Oscar that night." 
 
 In the excerpt of the book serialised in the paper, Ms Steenkamp refers to Pistorius's apology to them in court. 
 
 "Why decide to say sorry to me in a televised trial in front of the whole world? I was unmoved by his apology. 
 
 "I felt if I appeared to be sorry for him at this stage of his trial on the charge of premeditated murder, it would in the eyes of others lessen the awfulness of what he had done. He was in the box trying to save his own skin." 
 
 Nevertheless, the parents say they do want to meet Pistorius. 
 
 Image copyright EPA Image caption Oscar Pistorius holds the hands of family members as he is led away 
 
 Although she says "I am not entirely sure what I am going to say", father Barry, 71, says he wants an apology. 
 
 "I would like him to really, truthfully say, although he said it in court, 'I'm sorry.' I would like him just to say it to our faces." 
 
 Ms Steenkamp also talks about the "wrenching pain that you get in your heart" when thinking of her daughter's death. 
 
 "It's always there. The minute your eyes open in the morning, or if you wake up in the middle of the night, there it is." 
 
 Pistorius, an amputee sprinter, became the first athlete to compete in the Olympic and Paralympic Games. 
 
 He is serving his sentence in Pretoria's Kgosi Mampuru II jail. 
 
 Pistorius was also given a three-year suspended sentence for firing a gun in a restaurant. 
 
 Inside Oscar Pistorius's home 
 
 INTERACTIVE 1 2 3 5 4 × 
 
 × Balcony × Mr Pistorius said he and Ms Steenkamp had dinner at about 19:00 before going to bed at 21:00. He said he woke in the early hours, spoke briefly to his girlfriend and got up to close the sliding door and curtains. Judge Thokozile Masipa questioned the reliability of several witnesses who said they heard screams and gunshots between about 03:12 and 03:17, saying most had 'got facts wrong'. 
 
 × Bathroom noise × Mr Pistorius said he heard the bathroom window sliding open and believed that an intruder, or intruders, had entered the bathroom through a window which was not fitted with burglar bars. Mr Pistorius said he grabbed his firearm and told Ms Steenkamp, who he thought was still in bed, to call the police. The judge said it made no sense that Ms Steenkamp did not hear him scream 'Get out' or call the police, as she had her mobile phone with her. 
 
 × Shooting × Mr Pistorius could see the bathroom window was open and toilet door closed. He said he did not know whether the intruders were outside on a ladder or in the toilet. He had his firearm in front of him, he heard a movement inside the toilet and thought whoever was inside was coming out to attack him. 'Before I knew it, I had fired four shots at the door,' he said. The judge said she did not accept that Mr Pistorius fired the gun by accident or before he knew what was happening. She said he had armed himself with a lethal weapon and clearly wanted to use it. The other question, she said, was why he fired not one, but four shots before he ran back to the room to try to find Ms Steenkamp. 
 
 × Bedroom × Mr Pistorius said he went back to the bedroom and noticed that Ms Steenkamp was not there. Mr Pistorius said this was when he realised she could have been in the toilet and rushed back to the bathroom. 
 
 × Toilet door × Mr Pistorius said he screamed for help and went back to the bathroom where he found the toilet was locked. He returned to the bedroom, pulled on his prosthetic legs and turned on the lights before bashing in the toilet door with a cricket bat. When the door panel broke, he found the key and unlocked the door and found Ms Steenkamp slumped on the floor with her head on the toilet bowl. He then carried her downstairs, where he was met by neighbours. 
 
 3D animation of the apartment