Source: Multi-News

The Help 
 
 'The Help' review: Period piece take on Kathryn Stockett's novel oversimplifies, miscasts Emma Stone 
 
 Emma Stone's 'plain' writer character Skeeter is miscast in the oversimplified period film 'The Help.' 
 
 With Emma Stone, Viola Davis. Racism divides the women of 1962 Mississippi. Director: Tate Taylor (2:17). PG-13: Mature themes. At area theaters. 
 
 In her best-selling novel "The Help," Kathryn Stockett didn't simply introduce us to a few memorable individuals. She offered a meticulously etched portrait of a specific way of life. 
 
 Tate Taylor's eagerly anticipated adaptation is impactful in parts, but noticeably lacking in Stockett's instinctive nuance. 
 
 Though he grew up there himself, Taylor's Jackson, Miss., could be any suburban Southern neighborhood in the early '60s. Similarly, many of his actresses have little apparent connection to the intricate culture they are meant to portray. 
 
 Emma Stone, for example, is no one's idea of an ugly duckling. And though she offers a sincere effort, she never quite settles into the role of Skeeter, an aspiring author whose plain looks and spinster status — at age 23 — horrify her beauty-queen mother (Allison Janney, also miscast). 
 
 While her small-minded friends gossip through Junior League meetings, she envisions her first book idea: to give voice to the African-American housekeepers ritually abused by the employers who need them. 
 
 In 1962, when blacks and whites are divided by both prejudice and the law, Skeeter's plan is dangerous for everyone involved. 
 
 But having been pushed to the limit, both Aibileen (Viola Davis) and Minny (Octavia Spencer) agree to share their experiences. All the while, they have to hide the project from their bosses, viciously racist Hilly (Bryce Dallas Howard), ignorant Elizabeth (Ahna O'Reilly) and flighty Celia (Jessica Chastain). 
 
 While the book's minor — but crucial — details are often overlooked, the major themes are thrust on screen with forceful simplicity, as if Taylor doesn't trust us to understand the stakes. 
 
 Despite his unsubtle script, Davis and Spencer are experienced and assured enough to give their characters considerable depth, and their stirring portrayals make the film worth watching. 
 
 Their younger castmates, unfortunately, needed more guidance than they evidently received. How much more powerful Hilly's shameful cruelty, and Skeeter's tentative rebellion, would have been if they felt intimate and complex, rather than grandly symbolic. 
 
 Stockett's Jackson was a suffocating hothouse where tendrils of ugliness grew amid women raised to be nothing more than beautiful. She illuminated both sin and valor by exposing — for better and worse — the humanity in all her characters. 
 
 In contrast, Taylor's characters are familiar because we've seen them in movies so many times before: heroes and villains drawn in broad strokes, residents of a world regrettably lacking shades of gray. ||||| VIDEO: Legendary Penn State Coach Joe Paterno, 85, Dies - Rick Chambers reports 
 
 The football coach will be remembered for his award-winning legacy as much as fo... 
 
 The football coach will be remembered for his award-winning legacy as much as for scandal.