Source: Multi-News

Paralyzed Bride Opens Up for the First Time About Friend Who Caused Tragic Accident: 'I Had to End the Friendship' 
 
 Courtesy Rachelle Chapman 
 
 Martha Manning 
 
 Courtesy Rachelle Chapman 
 
 Courtesy Rachelle Chapman 
 
 Courtesy Rachelle Chapman 
 
 It's been a big year for Rachelle Chapman The woman known as the "paralyzed bride" celebrated her daughter's first birthday , started driving again for the first time since her 2010 accident and officially cut ties with the friend who pushed her in the pool, paralyzing her from the chest down almost six years ago.Chapman, who lives in Knightdale, North Carolina, became known as the "paralyzed bride" after a freak accident at her bachelorette party left her paralyzed from the chest down. One of her four best friends playfully pushed her in the pool, causing the life-changing injury.Now, for the first time, the 30-year-old is talking publicly about that friend. She has remained fiercely protective of the woman since the accident, even turning down an interview with Oprah when the talk show queen's bookers said they would only have her on if she came on with that friend.Chapman has never named her childhood friend publicly – and still won't – but for the first time, she is telling PEOPLE exclusively about the broken friendship she says she fought hard to maintain."In the beginning, she was there for me and I was there for her. She was distraught and depressed about what happened. But as the years passed, she didn't make the effort, it was just going through the motions and every time we spoke, I just felt like I was remembering the accident and going into the pool and I had negative feelings. I didn't feel that way in the beginning, but that's what's been happening over the last three years."She says her friend came with a few other girls when Kaylee, who turned one this week, was first born, but that's the last time they were together. She and husband Chris, 33, welcomed Kaylee via surrogate last April."I had to actually cut ties with her and end the friendship," she says. "I had to tell her that we couldn't be friends because she just wasn't there for me anymore."Chapman says she was honest after the accident when she was vocal about how the two remained close. But she says when that changed, she realized she needed to be honest once more."One of the things that happens when you have this kind of injury is that you lose people, and I felt like I wasn't being truthful anymore because I did lose some relationships. It's sad and it's complicated, but she wasn't there for me when I needed her."Chapman talks about her lost friendship in a documentary she and husband Chris shot for TLC about their journey to become parents. The network finished shooting in February and tells PEOPLE the as-yet-untitled show will air, they just don't know when.Chapman says she wanted to do the show to let people see the challenges and the joys of becoming a mom, despite being paralyzed."It's so cool, she uses the back of my chair to pull herself up and she has figured out how to come to me when I go to take her out of her crib," she says of her daughter, Kaylee. "She turns on her belly and scoots her way on to my lap. She is the only one who looks at me in the chair and it's normal to her because that's all she knows."And this past weekend – as friends and family celebrated Kaylee's first birthday – she walked to her dad. "Chris opened his arms and she came to him. Everyone cheered and clapped for her!"Chapman is also excited by her newfound independence. A few weeks ago she started driving again for the first time since she was paralyzed."It was a huge mountain to climb and once I did it, it really wasn't that bad at all. It's a workout because I have to get in and out of the chair, but it's nice to know I can go wherever I want, whenever I want."It is a big turning point she says, one that has her excited for the future."It's nice to finally have some independence and to know that I'll be able to do more for Kaylee as she gets older. She laughs all the time and makes me so happy and I just want to be able to do for her." ||||| share tweet pin email 
 
 Rachelle Chapman considers her daughter “the missing piece” to the home she and her husband created. 
 
 “I got hurt right before the wedding, so for a long time, all I wanted was to get married,” said the North Carolina mom known around the world as “the paralyzed bride” after a fall into a pool at her bachelorette party left her a quadriplegic. “We were happily wed for a long time, but then I felt that I really wanted a child with Chris.” 
 
 Rachelle Chapman Rachelle and Chris Chapman, with their daughter, Kaylee, who turns 1 on April 26 
 
 The couple’s daughter, Kaylee, turns 1 on Tuesday. Relatives and close friends, including the woman who served as the girl's surrogate, celebrated over the weekend with an Elmo-themed birthday party “because Kaylee is completely obsessed with Elmo,” Chapman told TODAY. “It’s been a blessing and super annoying at the same time!” 
 
 Chapman said her daughter recently learned how to walk by using her mother’s wheelchair as a prop. 
 
 “She got a lot of practice holding on to the back of my chair. She would pull up and hold on to the wheel, and then walk to the back and hold on to the bar in the back,” she told TODAY. “My wheelchair was good practice for her. She would basically push my wheelchair. It was so cool she learned how to do that.” 
 
 Kaylee also has learned to use her special wheelchair-accessible crib to her advantage. She recently learned how to crawl out of it by scooting backward on her stomach and onto her mother's lap. 
 
 “It’s really hard to just to pick her up and pull her towards me, so this tactic works,” Chapman said. “And she figured it out on her own. Knowing that I can’t reach out and pick her up like everyone else, she just crawled onto my lap on her own.” 
 
 RELATED: 'Paralyzed bride' finds happiness as a new mom: 'It is a dream come true' 
 
 Chapman said milestones such as these help quell the criticism she still gets from people who call her selfish for wanting to have a child because of her partial paralysis. Chapman said that single parents rarely get questioned about their fitness to be parents. 
 
 “Chris and I together as a team are more than capable of taking care of a baby, especially with the help of my mother, who was all in from the beginning,” she said. 
 
 Rachelle Chapman Rachelle Chapman with her daughter, Kaylee 
 
 Chapman’s mother lives with the family during the week, mainly to help Chapman get out of bed and into her wheelchair in the mornings, when her husband has to leave for his job as a middle school science teacher. 
 
 “I want people to realize, yeah, even though my fingers don’t work, I have found a way to manipulate my hands to do a lot of things. I can hold Kaylee. I can feed Kaylee and I can play with her while Chris is washing bottles or whatever. We have a system that works for us,” she said. 
 
 “And beyond love, Kaylee has a house over her head and food in her tummy. She’s a happy, happy baby who doesn’t realize that I’m different. This is normal for her.” 
 
 RELATED: 'What I always wanted': 'Paralyzed bride' expecting first child through surrogate 
 
 Chapman said she’d love to have more children but doesn’t know if she and her husband could afford the cost of another surrogate. Chapman is unable to sustain a pregnancy on her own because of blood pressure medication she has taken since her accident. 
 
 “I’d love to have more. We did IVF and I have these healthy embryos sitting in California, but I’d still require a surrogate, and it comes down to money,” she said. 
 
 Courtesy of Rachelle Chapman Chapman's daughter, Kaylee 
 
 Chapman has been working with the cable network TLC over the past year on an upcoming one-hour show that focuses on her journey to becoming a mother. The show also will feature her talking publicly for the first time about her relationship with the friend whose playful push into the pool led to her accident. 
 
 “I didn’t blame her for hurting me, because we’ve all pushed somebody in a pool and I was very supportive of her. The first year I made sure that she was OK, even more than me,” said Chapman, who still refuses to disclose the woman's name. Eventually, the relationship grew strained. 
 
 "We aren’t very close friends anymore and I talk about it for the first time on the show," she said. 
 
 In addition to becoming a mom within the last year, Chapman also learned how to drive her wheelchair-adapted van. She had delayed learning how, mainly because she's never driven a vehicle so large. But after realizing one day that she had no way of getting to her wheelchair rugby practice, she decided it was time to learn. 
 
 “Eventually, I want to be able to take Kaylee to dance class or tennis lessons and not have to rely on somebody else to do that,” she said. "Once she can get in and out of her car seat on her own, or old enough not to need one at all, I'll be able to do that." 
 
 Follow TODAY.com writer Eun Kyung Kim on Twitter.