Source: Multi-News

The humble grilled cheese sandwich is the latest dish to get the novelty sandwich makeover thanks to Deca Restaurant + Bar located inside the Ritz-Carlton Chicago. For the month of April, the restaurant is serving up a "Zillion Dollar Grilled Cheese," which contrary to the name, has a price tag of $100. Unlike other stunt foods that have turned to combining seemingly disparate foods like deep fried twinkies with a pork belly burger, the sandwich features layers of pricey ingredients. 
 
 
 
 According to the press release below, the Zillion Dollar Grilled Cheese "is not your childhood classic" and features black Iberico ham "sourced from pigs" that "roam free in the pasture eating acorns" in the "south of Spain," "artisan" country sourdough bread, 40-year aged Wisconsin cheddar "infused with 24k gold flakes," white truffle aioli, 100-year-old aged balsamic vinegar, heirloom tomatoes, foie gras, and comes topped with a sunny side up duck egg. Just incase that wasn't indulgent enough, the sandwich is also served with "a skillet of lobster mac." 
 
 Eric Ciechna, a host at the restaurant tells DNAinfo, "Looking at how ridiculously extravagant some of these items are, $100 might actually be a steal on this thing." See the press release: 
 
 Celebrate National Grilled Cheese Month in 2014 all April long with the ultimate sandwich - the Zillion Dollar Grilled Cheese for USD 100.00 at deca Restaurant + Bar, located at The Ritz-Carlton Chicago, A Four Seasons Hotel. The Zillion Dollar Grilled Cheese is not your childhood classic. deca Restaurant + Bar has created a one-of-a-kind experience. The sandwich is enveloped in artisan country sourdough bread, and cooked until golden brown in Laudemio Marchesi de' Frescobaldi EVOO. Layered between the bread is thinly sliced black Iberico ham, sourced from pigs living primarily in the south of Spain, allowed to roam free in the pasture eating acorns until they are of proper size. They are then salted and air-dried for six weeks followed by a minimum curing process of 12 months. The ham slices are smothered in melting 40-year aged Wisconsin cheddar infused with 24K gold flakes, taking the grilled cheese to the next level of decadence. Following are the Ellis Family Farms heirloom tomatoes, lightly drizzled with 100-year-old aged balsamic vinegar, and Oregon perigord white truffle aioli. The sandwich is finished with Hudson Valley foie sras and a sunny side up duck egg, accompanied by a skillet of lobster mac. It's time to treat yourself with this Zillion Dollar Grilled Cheese - the ultimate culinary indulgence. deca RESTAURANT + BAR is located on the 12th floor of The Ritz-Carlton Chicago, A Four Seasons Hotel. For reservations, book online or call 312 573 5160. To stay connected, follow Facebook, Twitter and Instagram @decaChicago. 
 
 · $100 Gold-Plated Grilled Cheese Offered at Ritz-Carlton's Deca Restaurant [DNAinfo] 
 
 · All Novelty Sandwiches Coverage on Eater [-E-] ||||| Deca Restaurant + Bar's "Zillion Dollar Grilled Cheese," priced at $100 and featuring gold-infused cheddar, celebrates National Grilled Cheese Month. View Full Caption Huge Galdones 
 
 STREETERVILLE — The Ritz-Carlton Hotel's restaurant and bar, deca, is offering a limited-edition menu item this month that befits the hotel's ritzy reputation: the "Zillion Dollar Grilled Cheese," a $100 sandwich that features gold-plated 40-year-old cheddar. 
 
 The Zillion Dollar Grilled Cheese sandwich, available at the restaurant at 160 E. Pearson St, is made with artisanal sourdough bread coated with Laudemio Marchesi de’ Frescobaldi extra-virgin olive oil, which retails for more than $30 a bottle. 
 
 Layered inside the sandwich is thinly-sliced black Iberco ham from free-roaming, acorn-fed pigs raised in the South of Spain. The meat is salted and air-dried for six weeks, then cured for a minimum of 12 months — usually closer to 18 months, said Eric Ciechna, a host at the restaurant. 
 
 "Up until a few years ago, you could not get Iberco ham in the United States," Ciechna said. "It's so insanely expensive. We get it in very small quantities." 
 
 Most important is the cheese: a 40-year-old aged Wisconsin cheddar infused with 24-carat gold flakes. 
 
 Other ingredients include heirloom tomatoes from the Ellis Family Farm in Benton Harbor, Mich., Hudson Valley Foie Gras, which costs about $60 per pound, and a sunny-side-up duck egg. 
 
 Dressing the epic sandwich is a drizzle each of a 100-year-old aged balsamic vinegar and Oregon Perigord white truffle aioli. 
 
 "Looking at how ridiculously extravagant some of these items are, $100 might actually be a steal on this thing, since there are so many different components to this," Ciechna said. 
 
 The sandwich will be available for all of April at the restaurant, which happens to be National Grilled Cheese Month. It comes with a side skillet of lobster macaroni and cheese. 
 
 For more information and reservations, call deca at (312) 573-5160.