Source: Multi-News

The Florida Supreme Court on Thursday ruled that the state's death penalty was so flawed for so long that more than half of the people on death row may be entitled to new sentencing hearings. 
 
 That opinion, handed down in a pair of decisions Thursday, covers more than 200 inmates awaiting execution — and includes all of those who were sentenced after 2002 or whose appeals were not final by that year. 
 
 It is a legal decision that death row inmates, defense attorneys, prosecutors and the families of murder victims have awaited since January, when the U.S. Supreme Court found the state's death penalty unconstitutional. 
 
 ID photos of Central Florida convicted killers on Florida death row. (Florida Department of Corrections) (Florida Department of Corrections) 
 
 That ruling made it clear that Florida needed to rework its death penalty statute to bring it in line with other states that handled those cases, specifically by requiring that juries — not judges —make the key findings required to impose a death sentence. 
 
 With Thursday's rulings, trial courts across Florida face the prospect of being swamped by requests from death row inmates, asking to be resentenced. 
 
 A substantial portion of them should be granted, said retired Circuit Judge O.H. Eaton Jr. of Sanford. 
 
 "There's going to be one hell of a lot of determinations as to whether these people are entitled to new penalty phases," he said. 
 
 The flood of new petitions could result in a backlog that might take ten years to unjam, said Orange-Osceola Public Defender Robert Wesley. 
 
 The rulings apply to more than 40 Central Florida convicted murderers. 
 
 They include Bessman Okafor, who in 2012 killed an Orange County man who was about to testify against him at a home invasion trial; ax murderer John Buzia, a handyman convicted of killing an elderly Seminole County man in 2004; and Michael Gordon Reynolds, who beat and stabbed to death a Seminole County father, mother and 11-year-old daughter in 1998. 
 
 In Orange and Osceola counties, 10 of 24 death row inmates could be eligible for new sentences, said Assistant State Attorney Ken Nunnelley. 
 
 A moratorium since January 
 
 Thursday's decision is the result of a U.S. Supreme Court ruling in January. 
 
 By a vote of 8-1, that court ruled that jurors — not a judge — must specifically identify why someone convicted of a capital crime should be put to death. 
 
 That case involved Timothy Lee Hurst, a Pensacola man convicted of murdering his boss at a Popeyes Fried Chicken restaurant in 1998 with a box cutter, then putting her body in a freezer. 
 
 The high court found that Florida's death penalty statute was unconstitutional, but left it to the Florida Supreme Court to decide whether the ruling should apply retroactively. 
 
 The state has not executed an inmate since then. 
 
 The state supreme court has issued several death penalty rulings in the interim. Some hinted that it would interpret the Hurst decision broadly, but each stopped short of spelling it out. 
 
 On Thursday, that changed. The court laid it out: Every death penalty handed down in Florida since 2002 is unconstitutional. That's 55 percent of the state's death row population. 
 
 That's because, in 2002, the U.S. Supreme Court handed down a ruling — Ring v. Arizona — that generally said the same thing to the state of Arizona that the high court said to Florida in the Hurst decision 14 years later: Juries — not judges — must decide whether the death penalty is appropriate. 
 
 "Florida's capital sentencing statute has essentially been unconstitutional since Ring in 2002," the court wrote in one of Thursday's rulings, that of John F. Mosley, a Jacksonville-area man given the death penalty for placing his infant son in a plastic bag in 2004 and allowing him to suffocate. 
 
 The Florida Legislature rewrote the death penalty statute last winter, giving juries more authority, and Gov. Rick Scott signed it into law on March 7, but in October, the Florida Supreme Court threw it out, saying it was unconstitutional because it failed to require a unanimous vote by jurors before the death penalty could be imposed. 
 
 As a consequence, the state currently has no death penalty statute. 
 
 384 inmates on death row 
 
 One of the factors the Florida Supreme Court had to evaluate was the level of disruption its ruling would create at trial courts around the state. 
 
 It concluded that including all 384 death row inmates would be too burdensome. 
 
 Even so, it set the stage for what could become nearly 200 resentencings: mini-trials at which a new jury would listen to evidence then rule whether the defendant should be given the death penalty. 
 
 It will not be easy, Wesley said. 
 
 Inmates must individually petition the court, and prosecutors will have a chance to argue that their sentences were fair, Nunnelley said. 
 
 If a judge sides with the inmate, a new jury would decide whether he or she should be sentenced to death. If their decision is not unanimous, the inmate would be sentenced to life in prison. 
 
 "Witnesses will have died. Memories will have failed. People will have disappeared," Wesley said. 
 
 Eaton predicted that most inmates would qualify for resentencing. The most likely exceptions, he said, were those who chose to have a judge — not a jury — handle the penalty phase of their trials and those whose juries voted 12-0 in favor of the death penalty. 
 
 Thursday's other ruling came in the case of Mark James Asay, who was convicted of killing two people, a black man and a transvestite, in 1987 in Jacksonville. 
 
 He was scheduled to be executed March 17, but that was put on hold after the U.S. Supreme Court decision in the Hurst case. 
 
 On Thursday, the Florida Supreme Court ruled that Asay was not entitled to a new sentencing hearing because his trial and initial round of appeals played out before 2002. 
 
 The state has executed one person who might have benefited from Thursday's ruling: Oscar Ray Bolin Jr., who was put to death in January for murdering three young women in the Tampa Bay area in 1986. 
 
 rstutzman@orlandosentinel.com and glotan@orlandosentinel.com ||||| The 6-1 ruling in a death sentence appeal says that Death Row inmates are not entitled to a re-sentencing unless their case was finalized after a 2002 ruling. Miami Herald File ||||| 
 
 Death penalty opponents demonstrating against an execution in Florida in 2014. (Matt McClain/The Washington Post) 
 
 The Florida Supreme Court said Thursday that some death-row prisoners there may be able to seek new sentences, a decision that could impact hundreds of inmates and ends months of uncertainty surrounding capital punishment in one of the country’s leading death penalty states. 
 
 While the court’s ruling means that many inmates could potentially avoid execution, many others on the state’s death row — the second-largest in the country, trailing only California — were deemed ineligible for this resentencing in a separate ruling Thursday. 
 
 The decisions Thursday, along with doubt that has suffused Florida’s death penalty for most of this year, stemmed from a U.S. Supreme Court ruling in January striking down the state’s death sentencing scheme as unconstitutional. 
 
 That ruling effectively froze the death penalty in Florida, contributing to a nationwide plunge in executions. But the ruling left unsaid whether it was retroactive and did not specify what it meant for the nearly 400 inmates on the state’s death row. 
 
 [Executions in the United States just fell to a 25-year low] 
 
 In a pair of rulings Thursday, the Florida Supreme Court offered its clearest answers yet to that question. The justices said that the January decision will not apply retroactively to death sentences finalized before a 2002 U.S. Supreme Court ruling involving capital sentences in Arizona. 
 
 Florida death row inmate Timothy Lee Hurst, the inmate for whom Hurst v. Florida is named. (Florida Department of Corrections via Reuters) 
 
 But in another opinion, the Florida Supreme Court said the ruling striking down Florida’s death penalty would apply retroactively to any inmates whose sentences were finalized after that 2002 case. That could lead to resentencing for potentially more than 200 inmates, according to the Florida Supreme Court’s estimate, a number that would exceed the entire death row populations in most states. 
 
 The rulings Thursday hinged on the U.S. Supreme Court’s January decision in Hurst v. Florida, which saw the justices strike down the state’s sentencing scheme because it gave too much power to judges, rather than juries. In the Hurst ruling, the justices determined that Florida’s system violated the Sixth Amendment, pointing to the 2002 determination the high court made in the case Ring v. Arizona, which found fault with a system that let a judge’s sentencing determination outweigh that of a jury. 
 
 [Florida’s death penalty was deemed unconstitutional, so lawmakers rewrote it — and it was struck down again] 
 
 In its new rulings Thursday, the Florida Supreme Court does not question the constitutionality of the death penalty. The justices also stress that their rulings will not impact the guilty verdicts that led to the death sentences, writing in one opinion that “no defendant will receive a new guilt phase or be released from prison while a new penalty takes place.” 
 
 “The difference is not guilt or innocence but, instead, life or death,” the opinion states. 
 
 Inmates eligible to try to seek new sentences will not all obtain them, nor are all guaranteed to have new penalty phases, the same ruling notes. 
 
 It was not immediately clear the exact number of inmates who would be eligible for a resentencing hearing under the rulings Thursday, but the Florida Supreme Court estimated in one of its rulings that a little more than half of the state’s death row had sentences finalized after the Ring decision in 2002. 
 
 [Florida had been weighing what to do with nearly 400 death row inmates] 
 
 “The upshot is that between 150 and 200 people will need to be resentenced, opening old wounds and costing taxpayers millions of dollars,” Robert Smith, director of the Fair Punishment Project at Harvard Law School, said in a statement. “You can thank Florida’s prosecutors for this situation.” 
 
 The rulings capped off what has been a chaotic year for Florida’s death penalty. In January, Florida carried out the country’s first execution of the year, a lethal injection that took place just days before the Supreme Court struck down the state’s death penalty system. 
 
 Florida Gov. Rick Scott. (Joe Raedle/Getty Images) 
 
 Florida lawmakers quickly revamped the state’s law in March to better adhere to the Supreme Court’s ruling and try to resume executions, but the Florida Supreme Court struck down the new law in October, saying that it was unconstitutional because juries were not required to be unanimous about sentences. 
 
 The offices of Gov. Rick Scott (R) and Attorney General Pam Bondi (R) both said they were reviewing the Florida Supreme Court’s latest rulings. 
 
 The justices ruled Thursday that Hurst must apply retroactively in the case of John F. Mosley, a 52-year-old on death row for killing his infant son in 2004. (Mosley was also sentenced to life in prison for killing his girlfriend in the same episode.) They vacated Mosley’s death sentence and remanded the case for a new penalty phase. 
 
 In a partial concurrence and partial dissent, Justice Charles T. Canady, joined by Justice Ricky Polston, pilloried the decision to vacate Mosley’s death sentence. Canady wrote that the ruling “unjustifiably plunges the administration of the death penalty in Florida into turmoil that will undoubtedly extend for years.” 
 
 Canady, who has been mentioned by President-elect Trump as a possible U.S. Supreme Court nominee, was also joined by Polston when he dissented from the Florida Supreme Court ruling striking down the state’s rewritten death penalty law in October. 
 
 Justice James E.C. Perry, who retires from the court later this month, also concurred in part and dissented in part, arguing that Mosley’s death sentence should be vacated and automatically changed to a life sentence. 
 
 This stance was offered earlier this year in an amicus brief filed by a high-profile group that included three former chief justices of the state’s Supreme Court, who had pointed to a state statute requiring that death sentences must be replaced by life sentences if “the death penalty in a capital felony is held to be unconstitutional by the Florida Supreme Court or the United States Supreme Court.” Bondi, the attorney general, argued in court filings that the Supreme Court had only “struck a portion” of the statute, rather than the death penalty itself. 
 
 As such, today's Florida Supreme Court ruling is one of the most concretely consequential death penalty opinions in 40 years. — David Menschel (@davidminpdx) December 22, 2016 
 
 The justices ruled in the case of Mark James Asay, 52 — who was sentenced to death for two killings in 1987 — that he was not eligible for resentencing under Hurst because his sentence was final before the Ring decision was issued in 2002. They also denied other petitions Asay made and lifted a stay of execution they issued in his case earlier this year. The sharply divided court was particularly vocal about this case, with four justices filing additional opinions. 
 
 In a third ruling issued Thursday, the justices also determined that a death sentence handed down in another case violated Hurst. As a result, they vacated that death sentence and remanded it to a trial court for a new penalty phase. 
 
 Further reading: 
 
 Florida Supreme Court halts scheduled execution after debate over state’s death penalty 
 
 The Florida Supreme Court heard arguments about what to do post-Hurst earlier this year 
 
 Why the U.S. Supreme Court struck down Florida’s death penalty in the first place 
 
 Supreme Court Justice Breyer: California embodies the death penalty’s ‘fundamental defects’