Source: Multi-News

Tweet with a location 
 
 You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more ||||| Donald Trump has been accused of a making an “assassination threat” against rival Hillary Clinton, plunging his presidential campaign into a fresh crisis. 
 
 The volatile Republican nominee was speaking at a rally in Wilmington, North Carolina, about the next president’s power to appoint supreme court justices. “Hillary wants to abolish, essentially abolish, the second amendment,” said Trump, eliciting boos from the crowd. 
 
 This is Donald Trump at his lowest yet: a man hinting at murder | Lucia Graves Read more 
 
 “If she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks. Although the second amendment people, maybe there is, I don’t know. But I’ll tell you what, that will be a horrible day.” 
 
 The second amendment to the constitution protects the right of Americans to bear arms. Trump has accused his Democratic rival of wanting to abolish it, a charge that she denies. 
 
 
 
 His extraordinary remark on Tuesday was swiftly condemned by Democrats. Robby Mook, Clinton’s campaign manager, said: “This is simple – what Trump is saying is dangerous. A person seeking to be the president of the United States should not suggest violence in any way.” 
 
 Senator Chris Murphy of Connecticut, where the Sandy Hook elementary school shooting took place in Newtown in 2012, went further in a tweet: “Don’t treat this as a political misstep. It’s an assassination threat, seriously upping the possibility of a national tragedy & crisis.” 
 
 
 
 British novelist Salman Rushdie then weighed in, tweeting: “Of course the Trump flacks are now trying to confuse the issue, but Senator Murphy is clear about what Trump meant.” 
 
 The claim was rejected by Jeff Sessions, a Republican senator from Alabama and longtime Trump supporter. He responded on CNN: “Totally wrong. I don’t believe that’s true. I don’t believe that’s at all what he meant.” 
 
 But Sessions acknowledged: “It may have been awkwardly phrased.” 
 
 Trump said later in reply to Sean Hannity on Fox News that he was referring to the political movement around the Second Amendment. 
 
 Hannity asked: “You know, so obviously you’re saying that there’s a strong political movement within the Second Amendment, and if people mobilize and vote, they can stop Hillary from having this impact on the court. But that’s not how the media is spinning it. What’s your reaction to it?” 
 
 Trump replied: “Well, I just heard about that, and it was amazing because nobody in that room thought anything other than what you just said. This is a political movement. This is a strong, powerful movement, the Second Amendment … there can be no other interpretation. Even reporters have told me – I mean give me a break.” 
 
 
 
 Trump has been striving to show more discipline on the campaign trail after a string of gaffes in recent weeks. He remained in control in Detroit on Monday when a speech on the economy was repeatedly interrupted by protesters. But in Wilmington, he apparently could not resist going off-script. 
 
 
 
 Campaigners for gun control expressed outrage at his off-the-cuff remark. Po Murray, chair of the Newtown Action Alliance, said: “Donald Trump continues to pander to the corporate gun lobby and the gun extremists who thrive on fear and rhetoric. 
 
 “Any suggestion that gun violence should be used to stop Hillary Clinton from appointing supreme court justices is dangerous and reckless. It’s no surprise that 50 GOP national security experts have signed a letter making a pledge to not vote for him.” 
 
 Mark Glaze, former executive director of Everytown for Gun Safety, said: “It may well be an incitement to violence, but understand it’s the basic theory on which the modern gun industry is built. Their core audience is people who hate the government and believe they’re going to have to take up arms against it. My guess is this is a deliberate dog whistle to that significant number of people. 
 
 “There are people out there who hear this kind of thing in a certain way, and if they’re already inclined to hatred of government and Hillary Clinton and see guns as a public policy solution, who knows what could happen?” 
 
 The concern was echoed by Paul Begala, a former adviser to Bill Clinton in the White House. “This is not something that should be joked about,” he told CNN. “I hope in the best case you could say he was joking. It didn’t seem like a joke to me. Tony Schwartz, the guy who wrote [Trump’s book] The Art of the Deal, says Trump never jokes. 
 
 “I fear that an unbalanced person hears that in this inflamed environment and, God forbid, thinks that was a threat. I certainly take it as a threat, I really do, and Trump needs to apologise.” 
 
 Michael Hayden, former director of the CIA and National Security Agency, said on the same channel: 
 
 “Well, let me say, if someone had have said that outside the hall he’d be in the back of a police wagon now with the secret service questioning him.” 
 
 As yet another controversy threatened to engulf him, Trump’s campaign insisted that his words had been misunderstood. Jason Miller, a spokesperson, attempted to explain the candidate’s comments. “It’s called the power of unification,” he said. “Second amendment people have amazing spirit and are tremendously unified, which gives them great political power. And this year, they will be voting in record numbers, and it won’t be for Hillary Clinton, it will be for Donald Trump.” 
 
 National Rifle Association spokeswoman Jennifer Baker called the uproar over Trump’s remarks a “distraction created by the dishonest media.” 
 
 “The NRA represents law-abiding gun owners and we support lawful behavior,” she wrote in an email. 
 
 
 
 “The NRA and Donald Trump are calling for Second Amendment supporters to protect their constitutional right to self defense by defeating Hillary Clinton at the ballot box,” Baker said. “Second Amendment voters understand the stakes. They understand that the Second Amendment is on the ballot.” 
 
 Clinton’s campaign went on the record in May saying that she believes the Supreme Court’s 2008 Heller decision, a key victory for gun rights, was “wrongly decided.” 
 
 The 5-4 Heller decision struck down the District of Columbia’s handgun ban as unconstitutional, ruling that Americans have an individual right to own guns for self-defense in their homes. 
 
 “If Heller is overturned, that paves the way for extreme gun control for decades,” Baker said. 
 
 The official NRA Twitter feed compared Trump’s remarks to a 2008 comment from then-Senator Joseph Biden, who said “If [Obama] tries to fool with my Beretta, he’s got a problem,” and asked “Was Joe Biden…suggesting violence here?” 
 
 Katie Pavlich, a prominent conservative writer who spoke at this year’s NRA annual meeting, also slammed the media’s coverage of Trump’s remarks, tweeting: “Media totally exposed itself (again) today by assuming Second Amendment supporters are assassins instead of voters.” 
 
 But she added: “That said Trump is reason Trump has no credibility/isn’t given the benefit of the doubt when actually misunderstood.” She was referencing Trump’s remark in January that “I could stand in the middle of 5th Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn’t lose voters.” 
 
 Pavlich wrote: “I’m not defending Trump or his comments, I’m defending Second Amendment supporters.” 
 
 The supreme court has become a central election issue since the death earlier this year of Justice Antonin Scalia, a conservative who has not yet been replaced. Trump claims that liberal judges could threaten the second amendment. 
 
 Progressive pressure groups that have been watching the process closely joined the condemnation of Trump on Tuesday. Michael Keegan, president of People for the American Way, said: “There has been no shortage of inexcusable rhetoric from Trump, but suggesting gun violence is truly abhorrent. There is no place in our public discourse for this kind of statement, especially from someone seeking the nation’s highest office.” 
 
 Neil Sroka, communications director of Democracy for America, added: “Honestly, it’s a little unclear whether Donald Trump was calling for his supporters to assassinate a Clinton court pick or take up an armed insurrection against a government that allowed her to appoint one. Either way, the only thing more insane than electing someone president who blows this kind of violent dog whistle would be buying the furious spin coming out of his campaign trying to explain it away.” 
 
 Trump has produced a shortlist of conservative justices that he hopes will appeal to the Republican base and deter those considering defecting to Clinton, who could set the court on a liberal trajectory for years to come. 
 
 He told supporters on Tuesday: “I guess there’s a scenario in which this president could pick five supreme court justices, and if you pick two that are left, left, left, it’s going to be a disaster for our country.” 
 
 
 
 The NRA had endorsed him early, he added. “We want to replace with justices very much like Justice Scalia and that’s going to happen, that’s so important. One of the most important elections for a lot of reasons, not just that,” he said. 
 
 He also told the rally that Clinton is “dangerous” and could destroy the country from within because of her immigration policies. 
 
 Trump was introduced by Rudy Giuliani, the former New York mayor, who brought up the case of Shahram Amiri, an Iranian nuclear scientist executed for spying for the US. Clinton received emails mentioning him on her controversial personal server when she was secretary of state. 
 
 Giuliani said: “Remember Hillary told us there was no top secret information on her emails? Remember she told us that. Well, she lied! And I don’t know the connection between that and the death of Mr Amiri, but what I do know is it put a lot more attention on him when they found those emails. It certainly put him at great risk, even if they didn’t find them, and it shows you that when the director of the FBI said she was extremely careless, he was being kind.” 
 
 But Giuliani repeatedly waved away chants of “Lock her up!” from the crowd. 
 
 Lois Beckett contributed reporting. ||||| At a rally in Wilmington, N.C., Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump said rival Hillary Clinton wants to “essentially” abolish the Second Amendment. He warned of Clinton’s ability to pick Supreme Court justices if she wins, saying there would be “nothing you can do, folks.” (The Washington Post) 
 
 At a rally in Wilmington, N.C., Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump said rival Hillary Clinton wants to “essentially” abolish the Second Amendment. He warned of Clinton’s ability to pick Supreme Court justices if she wins, saying there would be “nothing you can do, folks.” (The Washington Post) 
 
 Donald Trump was ticking through a list of reasons to support him over Hillary Clinton on Tuesday when he decided to linger on one. 
 
 “If she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks,” Trump said with a shrug at a rally here after accusing Clinton of wanting to strip Americans of their gun rights. He paused, then softly offered a postscript: “Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don’t know.” 
 
 The denouncements came swiftly from Clinton’s campaign and her allies — and from outside politics. The insinuation, critics said, was that Trump was inciting his followers to bear arms against a president in the future. And Trump’s response was just as swift: He’d said nothing of the sort but was merely encouraging gun rights advocates to be politically involved. 
 
 The pattern has repeated itself again and again. First come Trump’s attention-getting expressions. Then come the outraged reactions. The headlines follow. Finally, Trump, his aides and his supporters lash out at the media, accusing journalists of twisting his words or missing the joke. It happened last week, when Trump appeared to kick a baby out of a rally, then later insisted that he was kidding. It happened the week before, when he encouraged Russia to hack Clinton’s emails, then claimed he was just being sarcastic. 
 
 And with each new example, Trump’s rhetorical asides grow more alarming to many who hear them — and prompt condemnations from an ever-wider universe of critics. On Tuesday, for instance, even Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.), one of Trump’s most ardent defenders, struggled to fully embrace his comments. Sessions insisted in an interview on CNN that Trump did not mean to encourage violence, but he acknowledged that Trump’s words were “awkwardly phrased.” 
 
 1 of 60 Full Screen Autoplay Close Skip Ad × What Donald Trump is doing on the campaign trail View Photos The GOP presidential nominee is pressing his case ahead of Election Day. Caption The GOP presidential nominee is pressing his case ahead of Election Day. Nov. 7, 2016 Donald Trump speaks during a campaign event at SNHU Arena in Manchester, N.H. Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post Buy Photo Wait 1 second to continue. 
 
 People from other corners weighed in, too. “As the daughter of a leader who was assassinated, I find #Trump’s comments distasteful, disturbing, dangerous,” tweeted Bernice King, daughter of slain civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. “His words don’t #LiveUp. #MLK.” 
 
 The Secret Service acknowledged Tuesday in a tweet that agents were “aware” of the episode. 
 
 Trump’s most dedicated fans said they understood what he was saying, and they scoffed at the reaction of Democrats and the headlines from newspapers and news shows. 
 
 “In no way was he threatening Hillary,” said Sarah Smith, a 72-year-old retiree who attended the rally in Wilmington where Trump made the remark. “Anybody who thinks that is delusional.” 
 
 James Renaud, 66, said he took the comment “at face value,” meaning gun owners have to mobilize lest Clinton is able to stack the Supreme Court. “It was just off-the-cuff talking.” 
 
 And Keri Malkin, 49, said she didn’t “hear it that way at all,” suggesting that the insinuation that the comment was a threat against Clinton was engineered by her supporters. 
 
 “Hillary lies a lot, so it’s no surprise that her supporters would lie,” Malkin said. 
 
 The number of influential Republican officials saying they can’t vote for either Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton is growing as Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) pledges that she won’t vote for Trump. (Jenny Starrs/The Washington Post) 
 
 [In North Carolina, Trump hits the trail hard but late where he needs to win big] 
 
 But Trump’s rhetorical asides appear to be taking a toll among the electorate overall. Many voters find his remarks distasteful, even given his explanations. The possibility that he was joking or being sarcastic, or that he meant something other than what some people heard, doesn’t alter the growing view that Trump is reckless with his words. 
 
 Each day brings new polls showing the Republican nominee lagging Clinton nationally and in several key battleground states. The surveys show widespread uncertainty about whether Trump has the temperament to serve as president — a doubt that his ever-replenishing supply of rhetoric continues to feed. 
 
 “Don’t treat this as a political misstep,” tweeted Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), a Clinton supporter and a staunch gun-control advocate. “It’s an assassination threat, seriously upping the possibility of a national tragedy & crisis.” 
 
 Trump has made concerted efforts to counter such concerns; Monday, he delivered an economic policy address in Detroit that many anxious Republicans had hoped would reset a campaign that had flailed for more than a week after Trump’s attacks on the Muslim American family of a U.S. Army captain killed in Iraq. 
 
 But part of the pattern of Trump’s controversies is that they often step on his efforts to broaden his appeal, as they seemed to in this instance. 
 
 He also sometimes grabs the media spotlight away from Clinton when he’d be better off letting her keep it. That happened Tuesday, too, when Clinton was dealing with an unwelcome distraction: the revelation that the father of the gunman in the mass shooting at an Orlando nightclub in June had secured a prime seat at her rally Monday in Kissimmee, Fla. 
 
 On Tuesday, it was not immediately clear whether Trump was inciting gun owners to use their weapons against judges or a sitting president — or was encouraging some other action. Trump spokesman Jason Miller released a statement just moments after the comment, swatting down the idea that the mogul was doing anything other than encouraging political action. 
 
 At an event in Fayetteville, N.C., later in the day, former New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani defended Trump while introducing him. “What he meant by” his comment, Giuliani said, was that “you have the power to vote against” Clinton. 
 
 Later Tuesday, Trump appeared on Fox News, where he described the “strong, powerful movement” in the United States to protect the Second Amendment. “There can be no other interpretation,” he said. “Even reporters have told me. I mean, give me a break.” 
 
 Meanwhile, Clinton and her supporters on Capitol Hill and in the pro-gun-control community said they saw Trump’s words in a very different way. 
 
 “@realDonaldTrump makes death threats because he’s a pathetic coward who can’t handle the fact that he’s losing to a girl,” tweeted Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), a regular Trump critic. 
 
 “This is simple — what Trump is saying is dangerous,” Clinton campaign manager Robby Mook said in a statement. “A person seeking to be the President of the United States should not suggest violence in any way.” 
 
 The campaign also quickly dashed off a fundraising solicitation after the episode, emailing supporters: “We don’t know how many children were watching him today, absorbing the kind of violence and hate that Trump is peddling.” 
 
 What may have been lost in the flap was the substance of Trump’s accusation against Clinton: that she wants to overturn the Second Amendment, and plans to appoint judges and justices to the federal judiciary who would help her do that. 
 
 “Hillary wants to abolish, essentially abolish, the Second Amendment,” he said. “By the way, and if she gets to pick — if she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks. Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don’t know.” 
 
 Clinton has never said she wants to eliminate the Second Amendment. Even if she did, neither the president nor the Supreme Court nor lower-level federal judges have the power to do so. There are two ways to alter the Constitution. One requires a two-thirds vote of Congress and then approval by three-fourths of the nation’s state legislatures. The other requires calling a constitutional convention and, again, approval by three-fourths of the states. 
 
 One common thread linking many of Trump’s more controversial comments and actions is that he denies having said or done them. Trump claimed never to have mocked a disabled New York Times reporter, despite a widely disseminated video clip showing him making jerking movements with his arms. He claimed that he never said Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) is not a war hero, despite a Q&A in which he said just that. 
 
 He said he never advocated intervention in Libya, though he did. 
 
 Trump also relies regularly on the turn of phrase “many people are saying” to make pronouncements without offering evidence backing them up. 
 
 On Monday, for instance, he tweeted: “Many people are saying that the Iranians killed the scientist who helped the U.S. because of Hillary Clinton’s hacked emails.” 
 
 “Mr. Trump’s tweets speak for themselves,” said Trump spokeswoman Hope Hicks. 
 
 Trump and his allies often blame the media for misconstruing his words. The statement issued by his campaign after his Tuesday comments appeared under the heading: “Trump Campaign Statement On Dishonest Media.” 
 
 Sullivan reported from Washington. Abby Phillip in Austin, David Weigel in Washington and Jenna Johnson in Wilmington contributed to this report. ||||| Tweet with a location 
 
 You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more ||||| poster="https://v.politico.com/images/1155968404/201608/1125/1155968404_5078138654001_5078121151001-vs.jpg?pubId=1155968404" true Ryan: Trump guns remark 'sounds like a joke gone bad' 
 
 House Speaker Paul Ryan declined to join the criticism of Donald Trump over the GOP nominee’s casual aside Tuesday that gun owners might somehow take matters into their own hands to stop Hillary Clinton from appointing federal judges as president. 
 
 Speaking at a news conference Tuesday night in Wisconsin after his landslide win in a GOP primary, Ryan said he hadn't actually heard Trump's remarks but he had heard about them. 
 
 Story Continued Below 
 
 "I've been a little busy," Ryan said. "It sounds like a joke gone bad. You should never joke about that. I hope he clears it up quickly." 
 
 
 
 Trump sparked the latest uproar of his campaign earlier in the day when he veered off script during a rally. 
 
 “Hillary wants to abolish, essentially abolish, the Second Amendment,” he said. “By the way, and if she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks. Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don’t know. But I’ll tell you what, that will be a horrible day.” 
 
 Trump later said the comment wasn't meant as a joke. Blaming the media for manufacturing another controversy, he told CBS that his point was that gun owners should exert their collective voting power to stop Clinton from winning. 
 
 
 
 Ryan has called out Trump on several occasions in the past, including over his comments questioning the objectivity of a judge because of his Mexican descent, and over the nominee's call to bar Muslims from immigrating to the United States. 
 
 
 
