Source: Multi-News

Los Angeles police are seeking two men in connection with the slaying of a 19-year-old Canadian woman who was stabbed to death in 1969, just a few miles from the most infamous of the Manson family killings. 
 
 Sketches of the men were released Friday by the Los Angeles Police Department and are based on new information collected from a witness in Montreal. 
 
 The drawings show how the men might have looked in 1969, when the body of the then-unidentified woman — stabbed 150 times in the upper torso and neck — was discovered by a child on Mulholland Drive, not far from the Benedict Canyon home where actress Sharon Tate and four others had been stabbed to death a few months earlier, in August 1969. 
 
 The Canadian woman’s slaying has long been suspected of being tied to the Manson family murders, but as of April of this year, police still had no concrete evidence linking the killings. 
 
 We believed that Reet was probably in search of more autonomy, and therefore we waited for her to get in touch with us. — Anne Jurvetson, sister of Reet, who was slain in 1969 
 
 Detectives began reinvestigating the killing in 2003, after a retired LAPD cold-case investigator turned up a DNA sample, said LAPD Det. Luis Rivera. That sample, along with photographs of the victim, led investigators to her sister, and eventually, a positive ID was made. 
 
 Little was known about the young woman, Reet Jurvetson, after she traveled to Los Angeles in 1969. She came to meet a friend named “John or Jean,” Rivera said. She initially kept in sporadic touch with her family. As time passed without contact, her relatives became concerned, but they never filed a missing person’s report, he said. 
 
 Her sister, Anne, the only remaining relative in Jurvetson’s immediate family, recently created a website to help solve her sister’s killing. She posted photos of Reet as a teenager: celebrating her church confirmation, lounging on a sofa, smiling in a family portrait. 
 
 Handout An undated photo of Reet Jurvetson An undated photo of Reet Jurvetson (Handout) 
 
 She describes the young woman as adventurous but naive, part of an Estonian refugee family who fled to Canada during World War II. 
 
 “Attempts were made to reach her, but they proved fruitless,” she wrote. “Initially, we believed that Reet was probably in search of more autonomy, and therefore we waited for her to get in touch with us.” 
 
 As years passed, Anne said, the family imagined her sister had made a new life for herself. No one suspected the young woman had been killed, she said. 
 
 When Anne found out about her sister’s slaying, it was “devastating,” she wrote. 
 
 The witness in Montreal provided new details in July about the friend named John or Jean. 
 
 The witness remembers meeting Reet Jurvetson and the man at a cafe in Montreal, police said. The witness also provided information on an associate, a shorter man with a Beatles-type haircut who might also have been named Jean. 
 
 Authorities said Friday that Anne Jurvetson had recently found a postcard sent by her sister about two weeks before she was killed. 
 
 Handout A postcard Reet Jurvetson sent to her family shortly before her death. A postcard Reet Jurvetson sent to her family shortly before her death. (Handout) 
 
 Dated Oct. 31, 1969, it read: 
 
 “Dear Mother and Father, The weather is nice and the people are kind. I have a nice little apartment. I go frequently to the beach. Please write to me. Hugs, Reet.” 
 
 The postcard was sent from an apartment in Hollywood. The building, on Melrose Avenue, used to be the Paramount Hotel, but it was demolished in 1989 and replaced with a new structure. 
 
 Detectives initially suspected the Manson family of Jurvetson’s killing because their other victims had been stabbed to death, Rivera said, and Jurvetson’s death occurred about the time of the cult killings. 
 
 Manson prosecutor Vincent Bugliosi said in his 1974 book “Helter Skelter” that he believed Jane Doe No. 59 — as Jurvetson was then known — was killed because she had witnessed another suspected Manson family slaying, the death of John Phillip Haught. 
 
 Investigators initially believed Haught died playing Russian roulette in Venice in November 1969. But Simon Wells, author of the Manson biography “Coming Down Fast,” found out that Manson family members were present when Haught died. 
 
 Manson and his followers eventually were convicted of killing nine people during a bloody rampage in the Los Angeles area in August 1969. Prosecutors said Manson and his followers were trying to incite a race war that he believed was prophesied in the Beatles song “Helter Skelter.” 
 
 Last year, LAPD investigators interviewed Manson at Corcoran State Prison, where he is incarcerated, but Manson did not provide any additional information, according to Capt. Billy Hayes, commander of the Robbery Homicide Division. 
 
 “Talking to Charlie is like talking to a wall,” Hayes said. 
 
 Prosecutors and Manson scholars have always believed the group was responsible for slayings beyond the nine for which they were convicted. 
 
 Manson is eligible for parole in 2027. Most of his followers remain jailed or have died. 
 
 CAPTION White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders talks about President Trump's response to Steve Bannon's comments about Donald Trump Jr. and his Russia meeting. White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders talks about President Trump's response to Steve Bannon's comments about Donald Trump Jr. and his Russia meeting. CAPTION White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders talks about President Trump's response to Steve Bannon's comments about Donald Trump Jr. and his Russia meeting. White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders talks about President Trump's response to Steve Bannon's comments about Donald Trump Jr. and his Russia meeting. CAPTION It’s the first time that a rock act hasn’t headlined the festival. It’s the first time that a rock act hasn’t headlined the festival. CAPTION President Trump’s lawyer on Thursday demanded a publisher and author cease publication of a forthcoming book. President Trump’s lawyer on Thursday demanded a publisher and author cease publication of a forthcoming book. CAPTION Atty. Gen. Jeff Sessions scrapped a policy that offered legal shelter for state-sanctioned marijuana sales. Atty. Gen. Jeff Sessions scrapped a policy that offered legal shelter for state-sanctioned marijuana sales. CAPTION President Trump delivered a scorching rebuke to his former chief strategist. President Trump delivered a scorching rebuke to his former chief strategist. 
 
 esmeralda.bermudez@latimes.com 
 
 @LATBermudez 
 
 Times staff writers James Queally and Richard Winton contributed to this report. 
 
 ALSO 
 
 Going against the grain after Orlando shooting, LGBT group embraces guns 
 
 Bodies and blood everywhere after San Bernardino terrorist attack, DOJ report shows 
 
 7 officers to be criminally charged in Bay Area police sex scandal, D.A. says 
 
 UPDATES: 
 
 8:32 p.m.: This article was updated throughout with additional editing. 
 
 This article was originally published at 6 a.m. ||||| "Dear Mom and Dad, the weather is nice… I go frequently to the beach," wrote 19-year-old Reet Jurvetson in a postcard to her parents in Montreal, on Oct. 31, 1969. 
 
 The Canadian woman, who would have just two weeks to live before being stabbed 157 times, added "the people are kind" to describe the Americans she met in California. 
 
 Jurvetson had left Canada days earlier to visit a fellow Montrealer named Jean in Hollywood. 
 
 She had a crush on the young man who looked like Jim Morrison, the lead singer of the Doors. 
 
 A week after the fifth estate released a sketch of Jean commissioned by the program, the LAPD today released another sketch of him by a different artist. 
 
 Critical new detail 
 
 The LAPD also revealed that it recently learned the address of where Jurvetson had been living while in Hollywood — 5311 Melrose Ave. — information it had been seeking for months. 
 
 In an interview with the fifth estate in May, the Los Angeles Police Department's lead detective on the case, Det. Louis Rivera, said the address where she was staying was "the most important" missing clue. Based on the memories of Jurvetson's sister and best friend, postcards had said only that she was living in a nice apartment. 
 
 "From the location where she was staying, we can actually develop other leads, because this was an apartment building. So Jean may not be around, but we're going to go and ask anyone who might have been there during that time period." 
 
 With the discovery of Jurvetson's last address, the LAPD says their investigation has renewed momentum. 
 
 It turns out the apartment where Jurvetson was staying was a four-storey building called the Paramount Hotel. She stayed in apartment 306. 
 
 One of the last photos taken of Reet Jurvetson, when she was 18. She was 19 when she was killed. (Jurvetson family) 
 
 The LAPD is appealing to anyone who may have stayed in the apartment building to come forward if they have any memory of Jurvetson or the friend she was staying with — Jean, who police now call a "person of interest." 
 
 "He's definitely someone who's at the heart of the investigation because she came to visit him," Rivera told the fifth estate's Bob McKeown in an interview in July. 
 
 Jurvetson's body was found on Nov. 16, 1969 — dumped in the canyon off Mulholland Drive — two weeks after she mailed postcards to her parents and best friend, Gilda Green. 
 
 Green does not remember Jean's surname 47 years later, but he was someone she and Jurvetson knew socially in Montreal. 
 
 The LAPD reopened the investigation into Jurvetson's death in June 2015, after one of her friends called to say she recognized Jurvetson's morgue photo online. She was positively identified by DNA results in December. 
 
 Jurvetson had been known as Jane Doe 59 for almost half a century because she was found without any identification and her family hadn't reported her missing. 
 
 Over the summer, the fifth estate told Jurvetson's story through Instagram and Twitter in a 23-part series, a first for the program. 
 
 Over the summer, the CBC's the fifth estate told Jurvetson's story through Instagram and Twitter in a 23-part series that invited the public to help solve the cold case. (Thomas Hall/CBC) 
 
 the fifth estate is still actively searching for clues and is inviting the public to take part in its investigation by joining the Facebook page for the story, Facebook.com/JaneDoe59, and submitting any new clues. 
 
 You can also email the fifth estate directly at janedoe59@cbc.ca 
 
 The final instalment of the story will be broadcast in a documentary titled Jane Doe 59 that will air on the fifth estate on CBC-TV on Nov. 18 at 9 p.m.