Source: Multi-News

Spanish police have arrested an American woman for issuing death threats against the astrophysicist Stephen Hawking at a science event on the island of Tenerife. 
 
 The 37-year-old suspect was detained in the municipality of Arona, on the most populous of the Canary Islands, on Wednesday – the same day that Hawking delivered his first lecture at the Starmus International Festival. 
 
 The woman, who has no prior record and had traveled to Tenerife by herself, could be facing a six-month prison sentence and immediate deportation for harassment and issuing serious threats against the famous scientist, legal sources told the Efe news agency. 
 
 Police investigators who searched her hotel room found a collection of esoteric items linked to religious extremism 
 
 The same sources said that one of the cosmologist’s children alerted authorities after detecting over 100 threatening messages on Twitter and in e-mails on Tuesday. The messages contained sentences such as “I am going to kill him.” 
 
 In her statement to the police, the woman apparently said that she loves Hawking and would never harm him. 
 
 Police investigators who searched her hotel room found a collection of esoteric items linked to religious extremism and contrary to Hawking’s theories denying the existence of God. They also found notes and documents detailing the scientist’s residence and workplace, and notebooks outlining precise plans on how to approach her target. 
 
 Sign up for our newsletter EL PAÍS English Edition has launched a weekly newsletter. Sign up today to receive a selection of our best stories in your inbox every Saturday morning. For full details about how to subscribe, click here. 
 
 According to news agency Europa Press, the woman, who currently resides in Norway, has been following Hawking across the globe and may suffer from psychiatric problems. 
 
 Hawking’s Wednesday address had attracted long lines of people at the science and arts festival. The astrophysicist arrived on stage flanked by two members of the Spanish National Police, an unusual sight that caused some alarm among members of the audience. Outside the venue, other officers checked visitors’ bags. 
 
 That same day, the police arrested the alleged stalker at a hotel located very near the festival venue, the Pirámide de Arona, which contains one of the biggest auditoriums in Europe. 
 
 The woman had apparently been issuing threats against Hawking for years, but the situation got out of hand in recent days, when the threats proliferated over e-mail an in the social media. 
 
 “I am going to kill you.” read one of the messages. “I am right next to you and I can kill you,” said another. 
 
 The e-mails included specific plans to end the scientist’s life, the police said. 
 
 Sources close to Hawking told this newspaper that the scientist felt safe at all times, and played down the incident. 
 
 English version by Susana Urra. ||||| Image copyright EPA Image caption It is the first time threats have been made against the professor 
 
 A US woman has been given a suspended four-month jail sentence in Spain for threatening to kill British physicist and cosmologist Stephen Hawking. 
 
 The 37-year-old has also been banned from approaching to within 500m of the scientist or communicating with him on social media for eight months. 
 
 The woman was arrested in a hotel in Tenerife, close to where Prof Hawking was attending a conference. 
 
 She had stalked him on social media before following him to the island. 
 
 Stephen Hawking: 'Things can get out of a black hole' 
 
 Stephen Hawking's Reith Lecture: Annotated transcript 
 
 Prof Hawking's daughter told police that threatening messages had begun flooding the scientist's social media profiles and one of his email accounts on Tuesday, Spanish News Today reported. 
 
 The woman, named in Spanish media reports as Jenny Theresa C., had told the scientist she would kill him during the Starmus Festival, attended by Nobel laureates as well as musicians including Brian May, Brian Eno and Hans Zimmer, and famous astronauts. 
 
 She was arrested on Wednesday by police who found her in possession of a map showing Prof Hawking's itinerary while on the island. 
 
 After being detained, she told police that she was in love with the scientist and would never have hurt him. 
 
 Police said everything pointed to the woman being mentally unstable. 
 
 Spanish police had provided Prof Hawking with extra security because of the emails - the first time such threats have been made against him. 
 
 During his lecture, entitled "A brief history of mine", Prof Hawking forecast that humans would not survive another thousand years on Earth because of the fragility of the planet, Spanish News Today said.