Source: Multi-News

Robin Thicke Blurred Sonogram Lines April's Pregnant with a Girl!!! 
 
 Robin Thicke's Girlfriend April Love Geary Pregnant with Girl 
 
 Exclusive Details 
 
 Robin Thicke is about to be a father again, with a girlfriend who is barely able to legally drink. 
 
 22-year-old April Love Geary is 3 months pregnant with a girl ... the baby is due March 1. 
 
 40-year-old Robin has been dating April for 3 years ... shortly after his wife, Paula Patton﻿, filed for divorce. 
 
 Robin and Paula are still not divorced, and they have had an on-and-off custody war over their 7-year-old son, Julian. By the way, we're told Robin and April told Julian this week and he's "super excited for a little sister." 
 
 March 1 would have been Alan Thicke's 70th birthday. ||||| Robin Thicke and April Love Geary are expecting! 
 
 The model announced her pregnancy on Instagram Thursday, writing: “Robin and I are very excited to share with you all that we’re having a baby! The due date is March 1st, [Robin’s late father] Alan’s birthday!” 
 
 In addition Geary, 22, shared a photo of her sonogram, which was dated Aug. 14. TMZ reports that the baby is a girl. 
 
 Thicke, 40, is already dad to 7-year-old Julian Fuego, his son with ex-wife Paula Patton. 
 
 The parents-to-be started dating in the months following his separation from the actress in February 2014. Patton filed for divorce in October 2014 and in March 2015, their divorce was finalized. Earlier this year, the former couple were embroiled in a lengthy custody dispute, which now appears to be resolved. 
 
 Dave M. Benett/amfAR15/WireImage 
 
 Thicke and Geary made their first public appearance together at the Cannes Film Festival in May 2015 after dating for over a year. 
 
 On Wednesday, Geary shared a bikini photo and first look at her baby bump during her vacation in Hawaii. 
 
 Both Thicke and Geary frequently post about their romance on social media and she has previously joked about the couple’s 18-year-age gap in April. 
 
 Put your celeb and pop culture knowledge to the test and download PEOPLE and Zynga’s Crosswords with Friends!