Source: Multi-News

Photograph courtesy Universal Pictures/Tippett Studio. 
 
 David Haglund David Haglund is the literary editor of NewYorker.com. 
 
 Now MacFarlane’s branched out from his insular Sunday-night-on-Fox empire and made a movie, Ted, starring Mark Wahlberg and Mila Kunis (who does one of the main voices on Family Guy). It also stars MacFarlane himself—or rather his voice, which he lends to the movie’s title character, a teddy bear brought to life when a young boy makes a wish. That young boy is the Wahlberg character, John Bennett, who grew up just outside Boston in the 1980s. John makes his wish at Christmas, that “special time of year,” a comically old-fashioned narrator tells us, when little boys and girls all around New England “beat up the Jewish kids.” 
 
 That punchline is the first indication (apart from the opening credits) that this is indeed a Seth MacFarlane comedy. It’s not the last: Ted, we soon learn, is one of the pint-sized balls of pure id that populate his work. Ted was briefly famous when the world learned of his existence—we even see him on Carson, where, Ted says, Ed McMahon kept muttering anti-Semitic remarks, thinking that he was Alf (and that Alf was Jewish). But he has long since faded into obscurity, living in the Back Bay with his best friend John, who works at a car rental place, where all he’s got to do, in the words of his boss, “is not fuck up.” 
 
 Advertisement 
 
 
 
 He does, of course: John has a penchant for ditching work so he can do bong hits with Ted and watch the 1980 live-action film version of Flash Gordon. These man-child habits have begun to tax the patience of his girlfriend Lori, played by Kunis, who works at a PR firm with several similarly attractive and well-dressed young women and a sleazy male supervisor played by Joel McHale. Thus are the familiar rom-com parameters established: John is an immature dude with a heart of gold who must outgrow his loutish friend—who happens to be plush—and hold onto his gorgeous and super put-together girlfriend, keeping her from the clutches of a more successful but obviously evil rival. 
 
 Get Slate in your inbox. 
 
 In many ways, Ted hews to this tired outline. John kicks Ted out, and, after an incident at a party, decides they can’t be friends at all. Kunis, meanwhile, who helped carry Forgetting Sarah Marshall and was charismatic and sexy in Black Swan, is wasted here, getting no real story of her own: Lori wants a ring and she’s settled on John. Her resolution is at least made slightly more plausible by John’s incarnation in the form of Mark Wahlberg; dim-witted and unambitious he may be, but the man can certainly fill out a car-rental employee uniform. And Wahlberg is charming, as always, in what is arguably his first straightforwardly comic leading role (not counting The Happening). He also does a perfectly natural Boston accent, an essential skill given how heavily MacFarlane, a Connecticut native, relies on local color.* Ted even has a big scene at the Hatch Shell—with an odd, extended cameo by Norah Jones—and, like Ben Affleck’s The Town, a climactic showdown at Fenway Park. 
 
 A rom-com with a climactic showdown at Fenway Park? Why yes. MacFarlane is not terribly interested in emotional epiphanies. Instead, he gives us a second villain: a disturbed, mustachioed man (Giovanni Ribisi) who has been obsessed with Ted since childhood, and who, late in the film, kidnaps the bear and gives him to his equally troubled son to play with. We shift into action-comedy mode, and any question of the bear being abandoned is dropped completely. 
 
 There are some laughs along the way, but this problem with story is typical of MacFarlane. (Many of Family Guy’s jokes are dropped into random cutaways from the main action.) Also typical: the sour mean-spiritedness at the heart of so much of his humor. The Jewish jokes cited above work because they’re really jokes about anti-Semitism. But when an Asian man bursts through the wall at a party brandishing a duck and a meat cleaver and says things like “This is my home long time” and “I try to make duck dinner,” it’s not a joke about racism. It’s just racism. (Earlier, Ted had noted that his new neighbors were an “Asian family, but they don’t have a gong or nothing, so it’s not that bad.”) 
 
 Similarly, a bunch of gay-panic jokes throughout the film—the Ribisi villain is unsurprisingly played as effeminate—undermine the fun of an obviously homoerotic fantasy John has about Sam Jones’ Flash Gordon. (And no, MacFarlane doesn’t get a pass just because he’s an outspoken advocate for equal marriage rights.) There’s a cruel edge to so much of MacFarlane’s comedy—the quintessential MacFarlane joke may be a punch in the face. Of which we get many in Ted: The movie’s version of the meet-cute comes when John accidentally decks Lori on a dance floor, and the show-stopping set piece is a knock-down drag-out between John and Ted in a hotel room. The latter scene bears more than a passing resemblance to the naked fight from Borat—but where the Sacha Baron-Cohen bit was done with almost unimaginable comic gusto, the MacFarlane equivalent relies on really good CGI. It is funny to watch a teddy bear wail on Mark Wahlberg. But afterward, I mostly felt beat up. ||||| The Lady or the Teddy? Review: ‘Ted,’ by Seth MacFarlane, With Mark Wahlberg 
 
 There is really only one joke in “Ted” — a toy bear comes to life and turns out to have a filthy mouth and a taste for weed — but the movie’s attempts at humor can nonetheless be sorted into a few distinct categories. There are jokes that are funny only because a stuffed bear says them, jokes that are not funny even though a stuffed bear says them and jokes that may or may not be funny because of Mark Wahlberg . Mila Kunis is also in the movie, but she can’t be funny because she’s a girl, and her job is to be amused, tolerant and pretty. 
 
 Tolerant amusement is pretty much the best this harmless little picture, directed by Seth MacFarlane from a script he wrote with Alec Sulkin and Wellesley Wild, is able to manage, even though it strives for obnoxious hilarity. The cleverly animated ursine title character, voiced in an exaggerated Boston bray by Mr. MacFarlane himself, is a fire hose of vulgarity, ethnic insult, homophobia and misogyny. In the modern, meta manner he (that is, Mr. MacFarlane) wants both to indulge and to deny the offensiveness of this material, to wallow in ugliness and make fun of it too. It’s a wasted effort though. The sin of “Ted” is not that it is offensive but that it is boring, lazy and wildly unoriginal. If Triumph the Insult Comic Dog ever got a hold of Ted, there would be nothing left but a pile of fluff and a few scraps of fur. 
 
 Mr. MacFarlane is best known as the creator of “Family Guy,” an animated television series that has hung around in the company of “The Simpsons” and “South Park” like an annoying younger cousin, bullying and whining its way into a measure of public acceptance. The show shares with “Ted” a devotion to laughter based on incongruity: the baby who sounds like an English aristocrat; the dog who talks like a bored intellectual; the teddy bear with the voice of the guy who spilled beer down the back of your shirt at the Bruins game. 
 
 Balancing these inventions are sturdy stereotypes. In other words, the guy at the Bruins game is in the movie too, in the person of Mr. Wahlberg, who settles amiably into the role of an affable underachiever memorably named John. A cute opening sequence chronicles the granting of John’s childhood wish that his beloved bear come to life and the flurry of media attention that followed. In the present John is 35, employed at a Boston car-rental office and romantically attached to Lori (Ms. Kunis). 
 
 She is a good enough sport to accept her boyfriend’s underachieving ways and his devotion to his fluffy best bud, in spite of the skepticism of her friends and the amorous attention of her boss (Joel McHale). But circumstances and John’s own passivity conspire to force him to make a painful choice: the lady or the bear. 
 
 Meanwhile, to pad out the meager plot, Ted is menaced by a creepy guy (Giovanni Ribisi) with a creepy mustache and a creepy son (Aedin Mincks). Sexual and flatulence-based gags are accompanied by the usual side dishes: warmed-over pop-cultural references and cheap-shot jabs at celebrities and ethnic minorities. Fans of “Flash Gordon,” a kitschy early-’80s attempt to ride the coattails of the “Star Wars” movies, will be especially tickled. Admirers of Norah Jones, who shows up briefly, may on the other hand, be puzzled. 
 
 But not offended. There are some genuinely, wildly funny bits in the movie — a brutal motel-room fistfight between Ted and John; a cocaine-fueled talking binge; a few choice insults and smutty riffs — but the feature film is not a hospitable form for Mr. MacFarlane. He has no particular visual knack, little interest in storytelling and nothing better to do with his naughty bear besides stuff him into a soft, sentimental comedy that seems almost proud of its lack of wit or conviction. 
 
 “Ted” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It swears like a 13-year-old boy with unlimited access to premium cable. 
 
 Ted 
 
 Opens on Friday nationwide. 
 
 Directed by Seth MacFarlane; written by Mr. MacFarlane, Alec Sulkin and Wellesley Wild, based on a story by Mr. MacFarlane; director of photography, Michael Barrett; edited by Jeff Freeman; music by Walter Murphy; production design by Stephen Lineweaver; costumes by Debra McGuire; produced by Mr. MacFarlane, Scott Stuber, John Jacobs and Jason Clark; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes. 
 
 WITH: Mark Wahlberg (John Bennett), Mila Kunis (Lori Collins), Joel McHale (Rex), Giovanni Ribisi (Donny), Norah Jones (herself), Aedin Mincks (Robert) and Seth MacFarlane (Ted).