Source: Multi-News

By 
 
 AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF 
 
 — Testimony in the pretrial hearing of Maj. Nidal Hasan, the Army psychiatrist accused in the shooting rampage nearly a year ago at this massive Army post, could be postponed for another month after Hasan's attorneys made a last-minute request to delay the hearing until Nov. 8. 
 
 Lt. Col. Kris Poppe, one of three attorneys for Hasan, asked for the continuance Tuesday to "process some paperwork." Attorneys would not discuss the paperwork in open court and asked Col. James Pohl, the investigating officer serving as judge during the hearing, to close the courtroom to discuss the issue. When Pohl denied the request, defense attorneys asked to postpone the hearing until this morning to give them time to submit a written brief on the need for a continuance. 
 
 Prosecutors opposed the delay. Pohl is expected to rule on the motion when the hearing resumes at 9 a.m. today. 
 
 The first of dozens of witnesses was expected to begin testifying Tuesday about the shooting at the post's busy Soldier Readiness Processing Center, where 13 were killed and 32 were wounded Nov. 5. More than 120 media members from 40 outlets, including CNN and Al-Jazeera, gathered in the pre-dawn darkness hours before the hearing. 
 
 Inside the wood-paneled courtroom filled with computer monitors and television screens, a handful of relatives of victims sat on the stadium-style seating in the gallery, which accommodates about 30 onlookers. 
 
 Clad in a standard olive and beige camouflage Army uniform and a standard issue green knit cap, Hasan looked pale but alert as he was wheeled into the courtroom by a Fort Hood police officer after a lengthy delay while lawyers discussed the possible continuance. Although paralyzed from the chest down from bullet wounds received during the shooting, Hasan is able to move his arms and frequently touched his face during the hearing. 
 
 In past court appearances, a chilled Hasan has been wrapped in blankets, but he didn't use any Tuesday. His attorney has said he struggles to maintain his core body temperature because of the paralysis. 
 
 The Article 32 hearing is the first step in what many legal experts expect will result in a death penalty trial for Hasan. At the end of the hearing, which is scheduled to last at least four weeks, Pohl will recommend whether Hasan should face a court-martial. Fort Hood commanders will make the final decision on whether Hasan goes to trial and what penalty he will face. 
 
 Tuesday's request for a continuance is the latest in a string of delay petitions from Hasan's attorneys, who have complained that they have not received stacks of discovery evidence, including classified portions of investigations ordered by the White House after the shooting. 
 
 Hasan's civilian attorney, John Galligan, did not address the media after the hearing, as he has done after previous procedural hearings. 
 
 jschwartz@statesman.com; 912-2942 ||||| Army Col. James Pohl he told the defense it could put its arguments for the continuance into writing rather than air them in court. Defense attorneys did not want to explain their reasons publicly. 
 
 "I believe that would protect your client's interest," Pohl said, adding that he would "give you that option rather than discuss it in open court." 
 
 Pohl is acting as an investigating officer in an Article 32 hearing that will determine whether Hasan, an Army psychiatrist charged with killing 13 people and wounding dozens of others in a Nov. 5 shooting spree, goes to trial. 
 
 Often likened to a grand jury, Article 32 hearings are a routine first step toward trial. Pohl's task is to gather evidence and then tell commanders if a trial should be ordered. 
 
 Hasan's attorneys have called for continuances in previous hearings. They've unsuccessfully sought to close the hearing, citing heavy publicity they say threatens their client's fair-trial rights. 
 
 Paralyzed from the chest down, Hasan, 40, is charged with 13 specifications of premeditated murder and 32 specifications of attempted premeditated murder. The Army hasn't said whether it would seek the death penalty, but Hasan's lead attorney, retired Army Col. John Galligan, has insisted that's their goal. 
 
 Pohl ordered a recess until today after giving the defense the rest of the afternoon and evening to draft a brief explaining its reasons for seeking a continuance. 
 
 It is not clear if the defense's brief would be made public after Pohl's review. Neither Galligan nor other members of the defense team met with the news media, but retired Army Lt. Col. Tom Rheinlander, the post's chief spokesman, said the defense was given until midnight Tuesday to file its brief. He took no questions. 
 
 "The investigating officer will reconvene the meeting at 9 a.m. to hear arguments of the defense motion," he said. 
 
 sigc@express-news.net