Source: Multi-News

Culture And Criticism 
 
 In Slight Defense Of Miss Utah USA, A Little Bit, With Reservations 
 
 i i itoggle caption Ethan Miller/Getty Images Ethan Miller/Getty Images 
 
 Look, Miss Utah USA, Marissa Powell, gave a pretty unimpressive answer to a question about income inequality at the Miss USA pageant. Let's all agree on that. 
 
 But what, exactly, did the circumstances call for? 
 
 She was asked — by NeNe Leakes, who first became famous on The Real Housewives Of Atlanta before warring with Star Jones on The Celebrity Apprentice and is therefore exactly the person to whom we would entrust interrogations on major policy issues — the following question: "A recent report shows that in 40 percent of American families with children, women are the primary earners, yet they continue to earn less than men. What does this say about society?" 
 
 Not to put too fine a point on it, what kind of a simultaneously (1) dumb and (2) impossible to answer question is that? First of all, it's three questions rolled into one — what does it say that in 40 percent of homes, women are the primary earners, or what does it say that women earn less than men, or what does it say that we allow these two facts to coexist? 
 
 Second of all, "What does this say about society?" Really? Not "What kinds of help do families need to make ends meet?" or something with at least some policy meat on the bones, but "What does this say about society?" Asked by NeNe Leakes? While you're standing next to Giuliana Rancic, whose other job involves making people walk their fingernails down a tiny, hand-sized red carpet? What would have been a good answer to this question that could have been delivered in the time frame she had? 
 
 I think about this kind of stuff a lot. I've studied it. I've had about 20 years longer than Miss Utah USA to think about it. I have no idea what I would have said if someone had asked me such a moronic question on live television. 
 
 This isn't the kind of question that actually tests what you know; it's basically a test of your ability to generate cow patties on command. Have you ever seen the part of Miss Congeniality where they all say "world peace" and receive polite applause? The entire reason it's funny when Sandra Bullock says, "That would be harsher punishment for parole violators, Stan," is that she's not supposed to say anything substantive based on her experience. She's supposed to say "world peace." 
 
 These dumb questions aren't intended to actually see whether you're smart or not. Miss Utah USA might be smart and she might not be, but the last thing I'd use to guess at whether she's smart is whether she can answer this kind of question "correctly." Because "correctly" here just means smoothly, expertly, without hesitation or stammering. Had she said, "What it says is that we live in the greatest country in the world, and every day I get up and thank my lucky stars that I live in the United States of America," she would not be in the news, despite having given just as irrelevant a non-answer. Had she said, "What it says is that family is the most important thing in the world, and we need to figure out how to help all families be happy families because it's the most important thing in the world," she would not be in the news. 
 
 And none of this has to do with whether beautiful women or pageant contestants can be smart or are smart. Some are! Some are not! Welcome to the broad sweep of humanity. 
 
 She's not in the news for being dumb; she's in the news for being bad at spontaneous but convincing balderdash manufacturing, and because it's fun to watch a carefully orchestrated spectacle crash on the rocks. She's not a dumb person; she's bad at public speaking. And if she were good at it, nobody would have ever heard of her. ||||| NEW YORK — Miss Utah USA got a second chance Tuesday morning to answer a question she stumbled over Sunday night during the Miss USA pageant. 
 
 Marissa Powell, Miss Utah USA, made headlines nationwide after her rambling, incoherent response to a question asked by reality TV star NeNe Leakes. When asked what the wage gap between men and women says about society, Powell said it could be related to education and figuring out how to create jobs. 
 
 "That is the biggest problem and I think especially the men are, uh, seen as the leaders of this, so we need to try to figure out how to create education better so that we can solve this problem," she said. 
 
 Social media pounced on the answer, and video clips of the response went viral almost instantly. Tuesday morning on the Today show, though, Powell said that was not what she had meant to say. 
 
 "I was so excited and I was so nervous, and I got up to this top-five question ... and I got up and the question was a little bit confusing to me, and I just started speaking without really processing it," she told Today host Matt Lauer. "I just started going." 
 
 Lauer offered to give Powell a second chance at answering the question, and repeated it for the 21-year-old. 
 
 "So, this is not OK," she said. "It needs to be equal pay for equal work. It's hard enough already to earn a living and it shouldn't be harder because you're a woman." 
 
 Women working full-time in the U.S. are on average paid 77 percent of men doing equal work, according to the American Association of University Women, a nonprofit that advocates for equity in pay for women. In Utah, that percentage is 69 percent. 
 
 × 
 
 Related Links 
 
 Related Stories