Source: Multi-News

Issa looks to ban Internet regulations 
 
 By Brendan Sasso - 
 
 Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) is seeking input on a bill that would impose a two-year ban on new laws or regulations that affect the Internet. 
 
 Issa released a draft of his Internet American Moratorium Act on Monday night and said that he would answer questions about the legislation on Reddit, a social news and discussion site, on Wednesday morning. 
 
 The one-page draft bill would prohibit Congress and all regulatory agencies from enacting rules that affect the Internet for two years, with an exception for national security emergencies. 
 
 
 
 Many Reddit users are fierce defenders of Internet freedom, and the site helped organize opposition to the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA) earlier this year. Issa, a member of the House Judiciary Committee, was one of the leading opponents of the controversial anti-piracy legislation. 
 
 But Gigi Sohn, president of consumer advocacy group Public Knowledge, explained that Issa's bill would not actually prevent Congress from passing laws like SOPA. 
 
 "Even if they pass this bill, Congress could pass another Internet regulation bill that would supersede the previous bill," Sohn said. 
 
 Issa's bill would, however, prevent regulatory agencies, such as the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), from adopting new rules that affect the Internet. 
 
 Sohn warned that prohibiting all government regulation of the Internet would "throw the Internet into corporate hands." 
 
 Most Democrats support the FCC's net neutrality rules, which prohibit Internet service providers from slowing down or blocking legitimate websites. Supporters say the rules are critical for ensuring an open and free Internet. 
 
 But Issa and other Republicans argue that net neutrality is an unnecessary burden on businesses. 
 
 Sohn noted that Issa's bill wouldn't stop the net neutrality rules since the FCC already enacted them, but the bill could block other potential regulations, such as rules on broadband caps. 
 
 The FCC isn't drafting any rules on broadband caps, but Sohn and other consumer advocates argue the agency should investigate whether providers should be allowed to limit their customers' Internet usage. 
 
 Sohn said Issa's bill could also block future regulations on Internet privacy. The Federal Trade Commission is currently working on an update to the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), which restricts the ability of websites to collect information from children younger than 13. 
 
 Sohn said that depending on how broadly the courts interpret the definition of the "Internet," the bill could also derail efforts to provide more radio frequencies for cellphone service providers, which are struggling to keep pace with the booming demands placed on their networks by smartphones and tablet computers. 
 
 "This bill could have unintended consequences that even its proponents would not be happy with," Sohn said. 
 
 The bill might also prevent the president from issuing an executive order on cybersecurity. President Obama is considering an executive order to pressure owners of "critical infrastructure" to meet cybersecurity standards after the Senate failed to pass legislation on the issue. 
 
 A spokesman for Issa said the draft bill is not about trying to block any particular regulation, like net neutrality. Instead, the measure is intended to start a discussion about the appropriate role of the government in overseeing the Internet, the spokesman explained. 
 
 He added that Issa hopes to formally introduce a more detailed version of the bill next year after reviewing responses on Reddit and on his own site for discussing legislation, Project Madison. 
 
 Sohn said that while she has serious concerns with the measure, she agrees that it could be a "good conversation starter." ||||| Story highlights Rep. Darrell Issa proposes halt to federal Web regulations 
 
 Issa, a Web-freedom advocate, posted draft of a bill online 
 
 He was an outspoken critic of the Stop Online Piracy Act 
 
 In an unusual step, a U.S. congressman is proposing a two-year ban on all new federal legislation regulating the Internet. 
 
 Rep. Darrell Issa, a Republican from California who has been an advocate for Internet freedoms, has posted online a draft of his legislation, the Internet American Moratorium Act of 2012. The bill would "create a two-year moratorium on any new laws, rules or regulations governing the Internet." 
 
 "Together, we can make Washington take a break from messing w/ the Internet," Issa said on Reddit, where he also invited users to suggest changes to the proposed bill. He said he will begin taking questions about it from Reddit users Wednesday morning. 
 
 JUST WATCHED Internet takes 'round 1' in piracy fight Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Internet takes 'round 1' in piracy fight 01:21 
 
 JUST WATCHED Hollywood 'got rolled' by the internet Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hollywood 'got rolled' by the internet 02:05 
 
 It was not immediately clear whether Issa's moratorium would apply to his own Online Protection and Enforcement of Digital Trade (OPEN) Act, which would seek to protect U.S. copyrights and trademarks from infringement by foreign websites. 
 
 Initial reaction on Reddit to his proposed moratorium was mixed. Some users were confused about what point Issa was trying to make, while others saw the move as a stunt. 
 
 "I have a problem with legislation that preemptively ties your hands for years at a time. You can't know what the internet or society will look like in six months, let alone two years, and making it harder to respond to emerging threats or opportunities is an abdication of your responsibilities as a member of Congress," wrote one Reddit user. "This just seems to me to be more cheap political theater, along the lines of Grover Norquist's 'We will never ever ever raise taxes for any reason' pledge." 
 
 "The answer is NOT to ban new regulation. We need regulation," another said. "But, I don't believe ANYBODY in Congress has the vocabulary, is intelligent in knowing how the internet or computers work, or has the foresight to put current trends and future technologies together in a context to create those new regulation that protect the internet and it's users/consumers." 
 
 Issa's Reddit post had drawn more than 2,000 comments by early Wednesday. 
 
 "Open internet? That's a good thing. But a law that keeps congress from governing? That's not a good thing -- the internet is a big place, and the language of this law is very broad," she wrote. "As it stands now, IAMA is just a discussion draft, meaning it will be a very long time before it's even close to a vote. And while we're for an open internet, a blanket ban is a bad idea. Let's think about this one a little more, Rep. Issa." 
 
 When asked why the congressman introduced the bill, a spokesman for Issa told CNN, "After SOPA and PIPA (the Senate's similar Protect Intellectual Property Act), it became very clear that we needed a cooling-off period to figure out a better way to create policy that impacts Internet users, job creators and all Americans." 
 
 The spokesman, who asked not to be named, declined further comment Tuesday. ||||| Please enable cookies on your web browser in order to continue. 
 
 The new European data protection law requires us to inform you of the following before you use our website: 
 
 We use cookies and other technologies to customize your experience, perform analytics and deliver personalized advertising on our sites, apps and newsletters and across the Internet based on your interests. By clicking “I agree” below, you consent to the use by us and our third-party partners of cookies and data gathered from your use of our platforms. See our Privacy Policy and Third Party Partners to learn more about the use of data and your rights. You also agree to our Terms of Service.