Source: Multi-News

Hermann, a longtime Louisville senior athletics administrator, was hired May 15 to replace Pernetti. But in the weeks since her hiring, she and other Rutgers officials have defended her character against claims that she was verbally abusive toward volleyball players she coached at Tennessee in the 1990s. Rutgers has also faced questions about whether it properly vetted lawsuits in which Hermann played a role at Tennessee and Louisville. 
 
 In the Tennessee case, which resulted in a $150,000 jury verdict, Hermann was accused of discouraging an assistant volleyball coach from becoming pregnant. 
 
 In the Louisville lawsuit, Mary Banker, an assistant track and field coach, claimed she was fired as retaliation for complaining to Hermann and the university’s human resources department about sexual discrimination by the head coach. Lawyers for Louisville said that Banker was fired for underperformance, not in retaliation for her complaints. 
 
 Video 
 
 A judgment in favor of Banker was overturned this year, and the case is pending before the Kentucky Supreme Court. 
 
 Banker, in an interview Wednesday night, questioned Rutgers’s decision to hire Hermann to clean up its athletics department. “She had the opportunity to clean up at Louisville, and she chose not to,” Banker said. “What she did was she covered herself and the rest of her coaching staff.” 
 
 Kate Sweeney and Dick Edwards, the leaders of the Rutgers search panel, wrote an e-mail Tuesday to the other committee members to defuse growing criticism of Hermann’s selection. 
 
 Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters. 
 
 “You all had the opportunity to examine Julie’s credentials, to spend some time with her when she was on campus, and to provide us with your thoughts regarding her candidacy as Rutgers’s next Director of Intercollegiate Athletics,” they wrote. 
 
 The first response, from Schmidt, came 10 minutes later. “There was very little information about the candidates disseminated to the larger committee,” he wrote. 
 
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
 
 Garutti’s came two hours later. “Please, let us not at this late date attempt to convince ourselves and the public that there was sufficient time to delve deeply” into candidates’ documents, he wrote. 
 
 A Rutgers spokesman declined to comment on the e-mails. 
 
 In recent days, Democratic lawmakers in New Jersey have called for the resignations of Robert L. Barchi, the university president, and Hermann. But Gov. Chris Christie voiced support for Barchi on Tuesday and dismissed criticism of Hermann as “character assassination.” 
 
 Rutgers on Wednesday released a copy of its contract with Parker Executive Search, a Georgia -based firm, which it hired for $70,000 to manage the search for an athletic director. Parker was responsible for finding candidates and doing background checks, including criminal, credit and motor vehicle checks; confirmation of candidates’ degrees; and reference checks. 
 
 Rice’s replacement, Eddie Jordan , also had a rocky start to his job. The Web site Deadspin reported that he had not graduated from Rutgers, though his university biography said that he had. ||||| "It was not enough time. We only got the names of the two finalists Sunday evening." — committee member Ronald Garutti 
 
 
 
 NEW BRUNSWICK — The controversy over the appointment of Julie Hermann as Rutgers athletic director continued today as e-mails emerged showing infighting within the university over whether the new hire was properly vetted. 
 
 Meanwhile, Rutgers officials revealed they are paying a crisis communications firm $150,000 to help deal with the growing media scrutiny over the sports scandals that have engulfed the state university since early April. 
 
 In the latest development, a series of internal e-mails sent by members of the search committee that helped find Hermann show some in the 28-member group felt the process of appointing a new athletic director was rushed. 
 
 Reached by phone last night, committee member Ronald Garutti confirmed he and Kenneth Schmidt, a search committee member and member of the Rutgers Board of Governors, were among those who sent sharply-worded e-mails to Rutgers officials earlier this week criticizing the process that lead to the hiring of Hermann. 
 
 "There were flaws in this process," said Garutti, a member of the Rutgers Board of Trustees. "To some degree, I was frustrated." 
 
 Garutti, a 1967 Rutgers graduate and retired Schering-Plough executive, said he did not leak the e-mails, which were first obtained by ESPN, and never intended them to be public. But he stands behind his belief that Rutgers’ search for a new athletic director was troubled. 
 
 Garutti sent his e-mail to Rutgers officials Tuesday, responding to a message sent to members of the search committee by co-chairs Kate Sweeney and Richard Edwards supporting the process that led to Hermann’s hiring from the University of Louisville. 
 
 Rutgers has been under fire since Sunday when The Star-Ledger reported Hermann was accused of mentally and verbally abusing student athletes. The accusations were contained in a letter written by her volleyball team when she was a coach at the University of Tennessee in the 1990s. 
 
 The former Tennessee players said they publicly rehashed their 17-year-old accusations partly because Hermann had been hired by Rutgers to help rebuild its sports program after basketball coach Mike Rice was fired for physically and verbally abusing his players. 
 
 Hermann has denied abusing players and Rutgers President Robert Barchi said Monday she will keep her new job. But questions remain about why neither Rutgers nor the search firm it used to screen candidates for the post knew about the accusations against Hermann in Tennessee. 
 
 In their e-mail to the search committee after The Sunday Star-Ledger report, Sweeney and Edwards said the entire group had an opportunity vet Hermann. 
 
 "As members of the Search Advisory Team, you all had the opportunity to examine Julie’s credentials, to spend some time with her when she was on campus, and to provide us with your thoughts regarding her candidacy as Rutgers’ next Director of Intercollegiate Athletics. As you know, there was strong support for Julie, and for what she could bring to Rutgers," wrote Edwards, a Rutgers executive vice president, and Sweeney, an alumna and Morgan Stanley executive, according to a copy of the e-mail obtained by ESPN. 
 
 But Garutti contends the committee never had the opportunity to properly screen Hermann. He told The Star-Ledger the group received the names of the two finalists along with their resumes and biographical material on a Sunday night. Half the search committee was scheduled to interview both candidates for an hour each on Monday, while the other half of the committee would meet the finalists Tuesday. 
 
 "It was not enough time. We only got the names of the two finalists Sunday evening," Garutti said. "I was furiously reading and jotting notes." 
 
 Though the process was supposed to be confidential, Garutti said he was surprised the names of the two finalists — Hermann and Sean Frazier, the deputy athletic director at Wisconsin — were the same names he had seen reported in The Star-Ledger. 
 
 Garutti said the materials the search committee received included no mention of accusations Hermann abused players on her volleyball team at Tennessee. There was also no mention she was named in a sex discrimination lawsuit while an administrator at Louisville, he said. 
 
 The search committee members had read news accounts of Hermann’s involvement in another lawsuit filed by an assistant coach at Tennessee who contends the coach discouraged her from having a baby. But, with nearly 15 search committee members asking questions, the lawsuit never came up during Hermann’s 75-minute interview, Garutti said. 
 
 "Quite frankly, we didn’t have a chance to ask about it," Garutti said. 
 
 Schmidt also said in an e-mail obtained by ESPN that the process was flawed. 
 
 "There was very little information about the candidates disseminated to the larger Committee. Most of the information we received was what leaked to the media … Do not try and rewrite the facts," Schmidt wrote in response to the message from Sweeney and Edwards that praised the process. 
 
 Stefania Balasa, the only student on the search committee, said she was surprised to see the string of e-mails from other search committee members criticizing the search process. 
 
 "It was like a professional catfight in my e-mail inbox," said Balasa, a Rutgers senior and member of the university tennis team. 
 
 Balasa said she would have asked more questions during Hermann’s interview if she knew her full background. But she said she is frustrated that leaks to the news media continue to keep Rutgers in the news and tarnish the school’s reputation. 
 
 "I’m frustrated, especially because student athletes are the most directly affected," said Balasa, 21. "We are suffering now because of the harsh media spotlight." 
 
 Neither Schmidt, Sweeney nor Edwards could be reached for comment by The Star-Ledger. Several other members of the search committee declined to comment. 
 
 Rutgers spokesman Greg Trevor also declined to comment on the e-mails. But, he said, the process of screening candidates involved more than the search committee. 
 
 "It’s important to note that the search process had multiple levels," Trevor said. 
 
 Hermann was also vetted by a smaller executive committee at Rutgers, which did most of the work of screening candidates, Trevor said. The Parker Executive Search firm, which was paid $70,000 to conduct the search, and a private security firm also vetted candidates. Barchi, the school’s president, made the final decision to hire Hermann. 
 
 As the controversy over the new athletic director continues, Rutgers officials said they are using Hill + Knowlton, a global crisis communications firm with offices in New York, to help deal with the increased media attention. The firm was hired several weeks ago for $150,000 to help with the fallout over the basketball scandal. 
 
 CONNECT 
 
 WITH US 
 
 
 
 On mobile or desktop: • Like The Star-Ledger on Facebook • Follow @starledger on Twitter And check out our redesigned mobile site by visiting NJ.com from any mobile browser. 
 
 State Sen. Barbara Buono, the Democrat running for governor, continued to criticize Rutgers’ leadership today and called for legislative hearings into the university’s sports scandals. She also criticized Gov. Chris Christie for failing to intervene. 
 
 "He needs to call on this president to resign. I mean, how many instances do we have to have of this president muddying the name of the flagship university of New Jersey before we take action to stem the bleeding?," Buono said. 
 
 Christie reiterated he has no plans to step in. 
 
 "I’ve certainly had conversations with them over the last weekend, got a lot of my questions answered," the governor said. "This is up for them to make decisions, not me." 
 
 Staff writers Ted Sherman, Eunice Lee and Ryan Hutchins contributed to this report. 
 
 
 
