Source: Multi-News


 
 Law enforcement officers gather near where a body was found north of Laredo, Tex. (Danny Zaragoza/Laredo Morning Times/AP) 
 
 The woman in the white pickup was feeling increasingly uneasy about the driver, whom she knew only as “David.” Two fellow sex workers in Laredo, Tex., had been recently killed, and one was her friend Melissa. 
 
 The man and the woman had already been at his house, where she had discussed Melissa. He had reacted strangely, she later told authorities, and the situation had grown so tense that she vomited in the front yard before they left for a gas station. The woman’s mind lingered on Melissa. She wanted to keep talking about her. 
 
 He produced a gun in response and grabbed hold of her shirt. She managed to jump out of the truck and into the night, her shirt torn from her body. He fled, and she found a state trooper fueling up nearby. She told the trooper where the man lived. 
 
 That information led officers to Juan David Ortiz, a supervisory Border Patrol agent. He had been hiding in a hotel parking lot after fleeing from officers and was arrested at 2:30 a.m., according to an affidavit provided to The Washington Post by county prosecutors. 
 
 Ortiz, 35, confessed to the two September murders, according to the document. 
 
 But he had other confessions to make. 
 
 He had killed two more women early Saturday morning in the five hours between the assault on the escaped woman and his capture. 
 
 
 
 Juan David Ortiz is accused in the killing of at least four sex workers in Laredo, Tex., where he is a supervisor with Border Patrol. (Webb County Sheriff’s Office/AP) 
 
 “We consider this man to be a serial killer who was preying on one victim after another,” Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar said. 
 
 Webb County-Zapata County District Attorney Isidro Alaniz said he believed Ortiz acted alone in the murders while off duty. He is a 10-year veteran of the agency and worked in intelligence, authorities said. He is being held on $2.5 million bond. 
 
 Ortiz was charged with four counts of murder, aggravated assault and unlawful restraint, Alaniz told The Post on Sunday. All the women involved were sex workers, including the woman who escaped, the district attorney said, and there are signs that at least some of them were not chosen at random. 
 
 “Evidence points to him having knowledge and contacts within the [sex worker] community,” Alaniz said, including Melissa Ramirez, the first woman Ortiz said he killed. But Ortiz does not appear to have known the last two victims, he said. 
 
 Alaniz is also overseeing another case involving a Border Patrol agent in Laredo, a man accused of killing his lover and their 1-year-old son. 
 
 The victims in the Ortiz case were killed or left for dead in rural parts of Webb County, which borders the Rio Grande. Laredo is about 150 miles southwest of San Antonio. The first two were U.S. citizens, but Alaniz said authorities have not released details on the last two. The Post is withholding the name of the woman who escaped. 
 
 The Texas Rangers and the Webb County Sheriff’s Office are investigating the murders, authorities said. In a statement, Customs and Border Protection said it was cooperating with investigators. 
 
 “While it is CBP policy to not comment on the details of an ongoing investigation, criminal action by our employees is not, and will not be tolerated,” said Andrew Meehan, a spokesman for the agency. “Our sincerest condolences go out to the victims’ family and friends.” 
 
 [Shark attacks and kills a man who was boogie-boarding at a Cape Cod beach] 
 
 The National Border Patrol Council did not return a request for comment about hiring and screening standards for agents. 
 
 The arrest record recounts the brutal symmetry of the execution-style killings, along with the alarm that spread within the seemingly tightknit community of sex workers after the first two slayings. 
 
 Ortiz told investigators that he picked up Ramirez on Sept. 3. They drove about 30 miles from town, and she got out of his vehicle to urinate off a country road cutting through dense shrub land. 
 
 Then he shot her in the head multiple times, the affidavit says. She was later found dead. Ramirez was a mother of two young children, the Laredo Morning Times reported. 
 
 “I hurt a lot. All I want is justice. I want that guy to die in jail for taking the life of my daughter,” her mother, Maria Cristina Benavides, told the paper. 
 
 Ten days later, investigators said, Ortiz drove Claudine Ann Luera outside the city a few miles from where he said he killed Ramirez. 
 
 He told investigators that she accused him of being the last person to see Ramirez alive. 
 
 Ortiz said that she got out and that he shot her in the head, the document says. Luera was found alive and died of her wounds at a hospital. 
 
 The next two killings occurred in the hours after the woman escaped early Saturday, authorities said. Ortiz told investigators that he picked up an unknown woman whom the document identifies only as “Jane Doe.” 
 
 He told her to exit the vehicle along Highway 35 outside Laredo, then shot her multiple times in the head, according to the document. He then went back to the city. While in Laredo, he picked up another person — whom Alaniz described as a transgender woman — and took her five miles from the site of the earlier killing. 
 
 Ortiz said he shot her once in the back of the head and told investigators where they could find the body. They discovered it behind gravel pits, near a single shell casing, the document says. 
 
 Alaniz lauded the woman who escaped and said perhaps Ortiz would have killed more people had she not demonstrated such bravery. 
 
 He declined to discuss any potential motives, citing the investigation. 
 
 
 
 Purported Facebook messages by Juan David Ortiz. (Webb County-Zapata County District Attorney's Office) 
 
 At some point after the woman escaped, prosecutors say, Ortiz left cryptic messages on Facebook for his family, according to images provided to The Post. “To my wife and kids, I love u,” one reads. The other: “Doc Ortiz checks out. Farewell.” Ortiz served as a Navy corpsman, Alaniz said. They commonly go by “Doc” in the service. 
 
 Ortiz was defiant and uncooperative under questioning, at least at the start. 
 
 Detectives asked him to do “the right thing,” Alaniz said. Ortiz asked for the handcuffs to come off, and the circumstances behind the murders began to trickle out, the district attorney said. One woman shot in the face. Another shot from his vehicle. There were no tears. 
 
 “This guy is cold,” Alaniz said. 
 
 Read more: 
 
 In horrifying detail, women accuse U.S. customs officers of invasive body searches 
 
 U.S. is denying passports to Americans along the border, throwing their citizenship into question 
 
 The Border Patrol tries to win over Hispanic communities — by singing love songs in Spanish 
 
 California professor, writer of confidential Brett Kavanaugh letter, speaks out about her allegation of sexual assault ||||| CLOSE Here are the top stories for Sunday, September 16th: U.S. Coast Guard members rescue flood victims; U.S. Border Patrol supervisor charged in killing four women; Typhoon barrels into southern China; Jane Austen fans gather in Bath, England. AP 
 
 Juan David Ortiz (Photo: Webb County Sheriff's Office) 
 
 The arrest of a veteran Border Patrol agent as a serial murder suspect in the shooting deaths of four people has rocked the border community of Laredo, Texas. 
 
 Laredo is often seen as a relatively small community, but its population has surged over the past 27 years, from 125,787 in the 1990 U.S. Census to 260,654 in 2017. 
 
 Webb County District Attorney Isidro R. “Chilo” Alaniz sought to drive that point home during an impromptu press conference Saturday following the arrest of 35-year-old Juan David Ortiz on multiple counts of murder and other charges. 
 
 "Laredo's not the sleepy town that we all grew up in," Alaniz said. "These are crimes that are consistent with bigger cities – Laredo is a big city. We're seeing more and more serious crimes, (so) it can happen. People need to be careful. We need to look out for each other." 
 
 More: Updated: Border Patrol agent charged with murder 
 
 Ortiz, a 10-year veteran of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, is being held on four counts of murder, as well as one count each of evading arrest or detention, unlawful restraint – expose to serious bodily injury, and aggravated assault with a deadly weapon, according to online jail records. His bond is set at $2.5 million. 
 
 Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar, during Saturday's press conference, said an attempted kidnapping Friday is what led authorities to Ortiz. His arrest capped what had been a 10-day period during which authorities found the bodies of four people who each had been shot to death. 
 
 Law enforcement officers gather near the scene where the body of a woman was found near Interstate 35 north of Laredo, Texas on Saturday, Sept. 15, 2018. (Photo: AP) 
 
 A fifth person – a woman named Erika Pena – was nearly kidnapped on Friday but was able to run from Ortiz and flag down a state trooper at a nearby gas station, according to an affidavit provided by the Webb County District Attorney's Office. 
 
 "Apparently, the suspect pulled out a gun on her, and she was able to escape," Cuellar said during Saturday's press conference. 
 
 The affidavit identified two of the deceased as 42-year-old Claudine Ann Luera and 29-year-old Melissa Ramirez. 
 
 Ramirez's body was the first found, discovered on Sept. 4. She had been shot multiple times in the head, according to the affidavit. Ortiz reportedly told investigators that he picked Ramirez up in the area of San Bernardo Avenue on Sept. 3, then drove outside the city limits, according to the affidavit. 
 
 When they arrived at the location, Ramirez got out of the vehicle to urinate, at which point Ortiz used a handgun to shoot her multiple times in the head before driving away, according to the affidavit. A motive for the killing was not given. 
 
 Ramirez is survived by her two children, her mother and two siblings. 
 
 According to the affidavit, Pena said Ortiz had picked her up on San Bernardo Avenue and took her to his home. Pena said that when she mentioned Ramirez's murder the week before, Ortiz "began to act weird," according to the affidavit. 
 
 The Laredo, Texas, home of 35-year-old Juan David Ortiz, center. Ortiz, a 10-year-veteran of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, was arrested Sept. 15 for the murder of four women. (Photo: Eleanor Dearman/Caller-Times) 
 
 When the two went to a nearby gas station, they began talking again about Ramirez's murder when Ortiz pulled a black pistol on Pena and pointed it at her, according to the affidavit. When she tried to get out of the pickup, Ortiz grabbed her shirt – but Pena was able to pull it off and run away, fleeing toward a state trooper who was refueling his patrol vehicle, according to the affidavit. 
 
 Luera was found Sept. 13 shot and left on the side of a road but still alive. She died at a hospital later in the day, according to the affidavit. Ortiz reportedly told police that after picking up Luera on San Bernardo Avenue, they drove outside the city limits. 
 
 Ortiz stated that he pulled over after Luera "became nervous" and began accusing Ortiz of being the last person seen with Ramirez. When Luera got out of the vehicle, according to the affidavit, Ortiz also exited and used a handgun to shoot Luera multiple times in the head before leaving the area. A truck driver later found Luera's body, and she was transported to a local hospital where she died. 
 
 . 
 
 According to the affidavit, after Pena escaped Ortiz's vehicle at the gas station, he went on to kill two more people that same evening. 
 
 The identities of the other two victims have not been released by law enforcement officials. Those two individuals were only identified in the affidavit as "Jane Doe" and "John Doe," but both had been shot to death. 
 
 The Texas Tribune reported that one of the victims was a transgender woman. A single spent casing was found near the body, according to the affidavit. 
 
 Texas Rangers and investigators with the sheriff's department went to Ortiz's home and searched it, but Ortiz was not home. He was found just after 1 a.m. at a gas station near San Bernardo Avenue and Jefferson Street but fled on foot when approached by state troopers, according to the affidavit. 
 
 He was found at about 2:30 a.m. Saturday hiding in a pickup at a hotel parking garage, according to the affidavit. Ortiz provided a "voluntary verbal confession" to all four murders and Pena's attempted kidnapping and aggravated assault, according to the affidavit. 
 
 "The county and city can rest assured that we have a serial killer in custody," Cuellar said. 
 
 Christina Ayala, 29, was at H-E-B grocery store shopping on Sunday night in Laredo, and said she and her family had heard about the killings. 
 
 The news was especially shocking to her because a Border Patrol agent is the one accused. 
 
 "That's somebody that you would actually go to for help or something," she said. 
 
 Ayala has lived in the South Texas city her entire life, and said she didn't expect something like the serial murders to happen there. 
 
 "It's not a big city like San Antonio, Houston, where you see that a lot," she said. 
 
 Laredo population growth 
 
 1990: 125,787 
 
 2010: 236,057 
 
 2017: 260,654 
 
 Source: U.S. Census Bureau 
 
 Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2xlUT3X