Source: Multi-News

Another new label has surfaced from the US in December 2017. This time it’s from Diageo and their Johnnie Walker brand. 
 
 Jane Walker Edition. No information regarding Jane Walker can be found besides these new labels. Whether it’s Johnnie’s sister or not will be revealed in due time. 
 
 However, already in 2016 during the presidential election campaigns there was a rumor about a Jane Walker Edition release and ad campaign. The whole project was scrapped, or mothballed for the time being as it now seems, since Diageo’s then current Johnnie Walker campaign was already seen by many as a celebration and support for the Democratic party. The outcome of the presidential election probably didn’t make things better for Jane Walker. 
 
 Time has passed and 2018 seems to be Jane Walker’s year! ||||| Anomaly has made some significant changes to the Johnnie Walker “Keep Walking” work since winning the account away from BBH in December 2014. Its debut campaign was the liquor brand’s biggest ever, and it followed with a sequel to the “Gentleman’s Wager” ad starring Jude Law. 
 
 The latest Walker ad “This Land” debuted the day before the election, and it was political, if not explicitly partisan, in nature. The spot celebrated American progress and diversity in the abstract without commenting directly on the upcoming vote, but some saw it as an endorsement. U.K. blog More About Advertising summed it up with the headline “Johnnie Walker Backs Clinton in Anomaly’s Election Ad.” 
 
 Multiple sources told us this week that the planned sequel to that spot was supposed to be even more political. Its title was to be “Jane Walker,” which implies that its themes concerned gender equality and women breaking boundaries. This message would have been particularly timely if Hillary Clinton had won the election, but that didn’t happen. These sources claim that client and agency had to scrap the campaign as soon as the result became clear on Tuesday night. 
 
 We have no idea what the alleged work would have entailed, and now it will almost certainly never be seen by the public. 
 
 Anomaly has not responded to queries regarding the campaign. We also reached out to Johnnie Walker’s parent company Diageo earlier today but have yet to receive a reply. 
 
 Comments ||||| Johnnie Walker Time's Up!!! Icon Gets Female Partner 
 
 Johnnie Walker Company Prepping to Introduce Jane Walker 
 
 Exclusive Details 
 
 Behind every great man is a great woman -- and apparently the same goes for drunk men, because the folks at Johnnie Walker whisky are about to roll out his female counterpart. 
 
 Diageo, the company that owns Johnnie, filed paperwork in early January to trademark the name Jane Walker for all alcoholic beverages except beer ... according to new docs. 
 
 It's unclear exactly what the Jane Walker products would be, but in the midst of the #timesup movement ... gender equality and female empowerment seem like probable themes. 
 
 This isn't the first time Jane's name has been tossed around either -- around the time of the 2016 election, Walker reportedly had an ad campaign titled "Jane Walker" in the works ... but scrapped it after Hillary Clinton lost. 
 
 Apparently that wound has healed, 'cause Jane's ready to go. Bottoms up?