Source: Multi-News

Image copyright WA Police Image caption Reg Foggerdy was reportedly severely dehydrated when he was found but is recovering 
 
 A 62-year-old Australian man lost for six days in the Outback has been found alive after surviving without water and by eating ants, say police. 
 
 Reg Foggerdy disappeared last week while pursuing a feral camel in a remote area of Western Australia state. 
 
 Police trackers found him sitting under a tree on Tuesday morning around 15km (9 miles) from where he became lost. 
 
 Media caption Christine Ogden said she was "relieved" her brother had been found after six days missing in the Outback 
 
 His family described him as an experienced bushman but have now told him to buy a satellite phone. 
 
 Mr Foggerdy's wife Arlyn told AP she had cried when she heard he had been found alive. 
 
 "How you can survive without water and food is a miracle,'' she said. 
 
 Wearing only a T-shirt, shorts, a cap and flip-flops when he went missing, Mr Foggerdy - a retired miner - apparently became disorientated in the fierce heat of the desert. 
 
 Image copyright WA POLICE Image caption Police used a remote shack as a command base during their search 
 
 He was discovered "extremely dehydrated, a bit delusional, but he's received treatment, first aid on the ground, and it's fair to say he's now sitting up and talking," Police Supt Andy Greatwood told ABC radio. 
 
 Supt Greatwood also praised Mr Foggerdy's "fantastic" skills, saying that while more details of how he coped were likely to emerge, "most people would not have survived". 
 
 "The amazing news is his last couple of days of survival were achieved by lying down under a tree and eating black ants, so that's the level of survival that Mr Foggerdy has gone to," he said. 
 
 Mr Foggerdy's sister Christine Ogden told the West Australian she had not given up hope. 
 
 "When I went to bed last night, I said: 'Tomorrow's the day, they're going to find him.' I didn't know which way it was going to go, but I just had this feeling." ||||| MISSING hunter Reg Foggerdy survived in WA’s Outback by eating black ants — and didn’t drink water for six days — before he was found alive in remote bush in the northern Goldfields early Tuesday. 
 
 In a remarkable tale of survival, police confirmed the 62-year-old battler was found alive, six days after he vanished. 
 
 Police revealed he had “taken off’’ into the bush after a feral camel he was trying to shoot and became disorientated. 
 
 media_camera Missing hunter Reg Foggerdy as he was found by WA police and rescue crews. 
 
 Mr Foggerdy was camping at “Shooter’s Shack”, 170km east of Laverton on Lake Ransom Road, on a hunting trip with a family member, when he went to hunt alone on Wednesday night, but failed to return. 
 
 Specialist Tactical Response Group police trackers, who had been searching for Mr Foggerdy, followed his footprints and located him at about 6am. 
 
 He was extremely dehydrated and in need of medical attention. 
 
 media_camera Mr Foggerdy survived by eating black ants but didn’t drink water for six days. 
 
 “Early indications suggest that Mr Foggerdy survived by sheltering under a tree and eating black ants,’’ a police spokesman said. 
 
 He was treated at the scene by TRG medical officers and flown by helicopter to neaby Tropicana Mine Site for further medical treatment. 
 
 A Royal Flying Doctor aircraft then met the group at Tropicana before he was flown out to hospital. 
 
 media_camera Mr Foggerdy was flown to hospital, suffering dehydration. 
 
 His wife Erlyn Foggerdy, 41, told PerthNow her husband’s survival was a “big miracle” due in part to a jungle survivor show he watched every day on Foxtel. 
 
 Ms Foggerdy said she found out the good news after receiving a call early this morning from her sister-in-law, Christine 
 
 media_camera Alive: Reg Foggerdy, 62, survived six days lost in remote bush in the northern Goldfields by eating black ants. Picture: Christine Ogden 
 
 . 
 
 media_camera Lifesaver: A black ant, which Reg Foggerdy ate to keep him alive during his six-day ordeal. 
 
 “It was a big surprise for me. It’s been six long days so it’s a big miracle,” she said. 
 
 “He has been on other trips but this is the first time he has been missing.” 
 
 Phil Foggerdy, 11, said he “thought it was just a small thing” when his father first went missing. 
 
 “When he was lost for a few more days I started getting worried. I’m so happy they found him,” he said. 
 
 District Emergency Coordinator, Superintendent Andy Gratewood from Kalgoorlie Police told ABC News that Mr Foggerdy had spent his last days of survival eating black ants and resting under a tree. 
 
 media_camera Footprints that helped WA Police find Mr Foggerty. 
 
 Supt. Gratewood said Mr Foggerdy had been “chasing off after a camel” when he lost his bearings. 
 
 “He only had shorts and a T-shirt, a cap and thongs with him. He didn’t have any equipment,” he said. 
 
 “He had no water whatsoever for six days. He’s dehydrated and a bit delusional but he’s received first-aid treatment on the ground and he’s now sitting up and talking, so we’re looking very positive,” Supt. Gratewood said. 
 
 He is now receiving medical treatment and will be flown by Royal Flying Doctor to the nearest hospital, most likely Kalgoorlie. 
 
 media_camera Bush near remote Shooters Shack, where Reg Foggerdy spent six days lost in the Outback. Picture: WA Police 
 
 Searchers and Mr Foggerdy’s family were given fresh hope when a search team found new tracks late on Monday afternoon, after nearly a week of land and air search for the 62-year-old. 
 
 Supt. Gratewood said specialist operators from the tactical response group were brought in to track Mr Foggerty’s footprints. 
 
 “They have the equipment and capability and they’re extremely fit. They tracked Mr Foggerdy for many days through the desert and at the end of the day they’d lose the footprints and find them again,” he said. 
 
 “They’re very talented people and they’ve managed to continue that search and found him this morning.” 
 
 There were grave concerns for Mr Foggerdy’s welfare, as police believed he was lost without access to food or water. 
 
 This shooters shack was used as a command post for the search for Mr Foggerdy #polair #swaggingit pic.twitter.com/NwlFi24WIO — WA Police (@WA_Police) October 13, 2015 
 
 In an interview with 6PR News, Mr Foggerdy’s sister Christine Ogden said the family “never lost faith” he would be found despite what had been a “horrible” week. 
 
 “It’s been absolutely horrible. It’s been full of emotions, up and down ... it’s just been awful,” Ms Ogden said. 
 
 “He didn’t hear the helicopters or his name being called. The bush is so dense. Being lost in that would have been horrific.” 
 
 Ms Ogden said she received a call from Laverton police at 6.15am on Tuesday saying they had found Mr Foggerdy, who had “stopped walking”. 
 
 She said the tactical response team started at 5am and located Mr Foggerdy shortly after. 
 
 “I’m so impressed with the service. They are just amazing people out there and the friends that I’ve got I love dearly. They are so special for what they’ve done,” she said. 
 
 Ms Ogden said she hadn’t had the chance to speak to her brother yet, who was undergoing medical treatment for dehydration. 
 
 “He’s been out there for quite some time — this is his sixth day. He would be so dehydrated he wouldn’t even be able to communicate with us,” she said. 
 
 “They’ve got to pump him up with everything they possibly can. It’s up the medical team now.” 
 
 media_camera Bush near remote Shooters Shack, where Mr Foggerdy had started out from. 
 
 Ms Ogden said it was fortunate her brother was an “experienced bushman” who had lived in Kalgoorlie and surrounding areas for the past 20 years and worked as a miner. 
 
 “Reg is an amazing man. He’s a father-of-four, a grandfather-of-two — he’s just your every day person,” she said. 
 
 “He’s retired and he worked hard in the mining industry. He just wants to enjoy life as he could and hunting was one of those things.” 
 
 media_camera The unforgiving terrain near WA’s Goldfields where the hunter became lost 
 
 Nephew Brodie Hunter said he was ecstatic when his mother, Christine, called to tell him the good news early this morning. 
 
 “The family were optimistic some days and some days it was a little bit less, but with new hopes of fresh tracks that really kept us going,” Mr Hunter said. 
 
 “I’ve spoken to Reg’s other children and they’re very very pleased with the effort and so overwhelmed.” 
 
 “I don’t know how he did it. I know he’s very fit and he can walk but I just don’t know how he was able to stay alive for so long.” 
 
 WA Police acknowledged and the assistance provided by Anglo Gold Ashanti (Tropicana Mine Site), DFES, SES, Leonora Shire, Laverton Shire, media and the general public. 
 
 “Police would like to stress the importance of remaining at your camp and not leaving unless you are fully equipped and prepared,’’ a spokesman said. 
 
 “Personal locating beacons are readily available and should be carried by any person planning on travelling to remote locations.’’ ||||| Sorry, your browser is unable to play this video.Please install Adobe Flash ™ and try again. Alternatively upgrade to a modern browser. 
 
 Perth man Reg Foggerdy has been found alive after six days lost in the desert in central Western Australia. 
 
 The 62-year-old was found by police about 6am on Tuesday and has been flown to Kalgoorlie hospital for treatment. The ABC reported police search teams found Foggerdy after following a fresh trail of footprints, which were discovered on Monday, for 15km. 
 
 Kalgoorlie police Superintendent Andy Greatwood told ABC radio that Foggerdy had “no water whatsoever for six days” and was “extremely dehydrated [and a] bit delusional” when he was first found, but was able to talk after receiving first aid. 
 
 “The amazing news is his last couple of days of survival were achieved by lying down under a tree and eating black ants, so that’s the level of survival that Mr Foggerdy has gone to,” Greatwood said. 
 
 Foggerdy had been missing since Wednesday when he left Shooter’s Shack campsite on the edge of the Great Victoria Desert, 1,120km east of Perth. He was armed with a rifle and planned to hunt the feral camels that roam the Australian interior. He left wearing shorts, a T-shirt, thongs and a baseball cap. Police believe he was not carrying food or water. 
 
 When he had not returned by Thursday morning, his brother Ray drove 170km to Laverton, the nearest town, to get enough mobile reception to report him missing to police. 
 
 Foggerdy, who has been described by his family as an experienced bushman, appears to have shot and killed a camel a short distance from the camp. The carcass was the central point of the police-coordinated land and aerial search. 
 
 Bob Cooper, an outback survival expert who has written a book on the topic, told Guardian Australia that the combination of dehydration, which impairs brain function, and the panic of being lost was “probably the worst thing you can put people through”. 
 
 “Fear turns a mishap into a tragedy,” Cooper said. “Just because your car won’t start, that isn’t a tragedy, particularly when it has probably got most of what you need in it. But people panic and start walking.” 
 
 That is what appears to have happened to two men who died in January after abandoning their vehicles and trying to walk for help. 
 
 
 
 On 4 January, a car driven by a 60-year-old man broke down between Wonganoo and Windidda stations, near Lake Carnegie on the edge of the Little Sandy Desert, about 1,000km north-east of Perth. 
 
 According to an ABC report, the man camped next to the car with the woman he was travelling with for one night before setting off the next morning to walk the 48km to Windidda Station in 40C heat. His body was found on the roadside 2km from the station on 7 January. The woman, who remained with the car for an extra night before walking, was found alive by station workers the same day. 
 
 Nine days later and about 400km away, Clayton Miller, a 39-year-old truck driver, became bogged on his way to Moorarie Station, 140km north-west of Meekatharra and 15km past the Mileura Station homestead. He started walking back to Mileura after trying and failing to dig the truck out, and made it 13km before doubling back. His body was found 1.1km from his truck, which was reported to be carrying ample water. 
 
 Neither man had a satellite phone or an emergency beacon to call for help. 
 
 Cooper said dehydration impeded rational thought, which was why so many people ignored survival rule No 1: stay with your vehicle if you have one, and stay with water. 
 
 “The organ most affected by dehydration is the brain,” he said. “Your ability to think rationally is diminished by up to 30% and that can happen within an hour. 
 
 “The combination of dehydration and fear is probably the worst thing you can put people through. People don’t know where they are going but they are running to it.” 
 
 Cooper said reliance on technology should take second place to basic survival skills, like knowing how to use a compass. He said people travelling in remote country, even on routine journeys, should give an explicit itinerary to a trusted person and make sure that person raises the alarm the minute a check-in is missed – not hours later. 
 
 People stranded with their car should stay with the vehicle, which in outback areas should contain at least 20 litres, or one week’s worth, of water. More could be collected as it condensed from the vehicle’s air conditioning unit. 
 
 He also recommended people stranded start a large smoky fire – the black smoke sent up by a deflated spare tyre is a favoured option – and use mirrors and a foil survival blanket to attract attention from aerial patrols. ABC local radio broadcasts news of every search. 
 
 “I have had people in our courses that have … heard their name come on the radio and said, ‘Oh, thank god – they are looking for me.’” 
 
 If you are lost or stranded without a car, Cooper said, you should be carrying water, something to light a fire, snake-bite bandages and a foil blanket. 
 
 “The police helicopters now have heat-vision cameras and night-vision cameras that can pick up the luminous numbers on a watch from 2km away,” he said. “Make things easier for the people who want to help you.” ||||| Lost hunter Reginald Foggerdy survived six days in remote bush by eating ants and lying under tree 
 
 Updated 
 
 A hunter who was lost in the remote West Australian Goldfields for almost a week without water survived by lying under a tree for days and eating ants. 
 
 Reginald Foggerdy, 62, was found on Tuesday morning by Tactical Response Group (TRG) trackers who had been looking for him for the past six days. 
 
 Mr Foggerdy had been on a hunting trip 170 kilometres east of Laverton on Rason Lake Road, when he left the campsite he was sharing with his brother last Wednesday. 
 
 The alarm was raised by family members the next morning, sparking a land and air search. 
 
 Superintendent Andy Greatwood said Mr Foggerdy was found 15 kilometres from his camp site and was not well. 
 
 "[He was] extremely dehydrated, a bit delusional, but he's received treatment, first aid, on the ground and it's fair to say he's now sitting up and talking, so it's looking very positive," he told 720 ABC Perth. 
 
 "His last couple of days of survival were achieved by lying down under a tree and eating black ants, so that's the level of survival that Mr Foggerdy has gone to. 
 
 "[He had] no water whatsoever for six days." 
 
 Superintendent Greatwood said Mr Foggerdy had been hunting a camel when he became lost. 
 
 "He only had shorts and a T-shirt, a cap and thongs with him," he said. 
 
 "He didn't have any equipment. It was just the circumstances of how he had gone out taking off after a camel and then became disorientated and lost. 
 
 "[He had] fantastic survival skills. 
 
 "Obviously it will emerge how it did that and how he achieved that, but it's fair to say it's been extremely hot, extremely remote and most people would not have survived so he's done a fantastic job." 
 
 Last week local Indigenous trackers found a footprint of Mr Foggerdy's near the campsite which was the starting point for the initial search. 
 
 Police trackers had a breakthrough when Mr Foggerdy lost one of his thongs on Monday afternoon and began leaving more distinct footprints for them to follow. 
 
 The Royal Flying Doctor Service took Mr Foggerdy to a Kalgoorlie hospital this morning where he is being treated for dehydration and is in a stable condition. 
 
 Wife cried after 'miracle' survival without food and water 
 
 Mr Foggerdy's wife Arlyn said she cried when she heard he had been found alive. 
 
 "How you can survive without water and food is a miracle," she said. 
 
 His sister, Christine Ogden, said she was "over the moon" to hear her brother had been found. 
 
 "He's not very well obviously, he needs a lot of medical intervention, but it's the best outcome we've had," she said. 
 
 "My concern was up and down; I'd feel like they'd find him one day and then they wouldn't find him the next. 
 
 "But I went to bed last night and said to myself they're going to find him today, and they did. 
 
 "His son is overwhelmed, he doesn't know how to respond. It's amazing." 
 
 Search crews looking for Mr Foggerdy found footprints in the area on the weekend and fresh tracks were discovered by the TRG trackers on Monday. 
 
 Mr Foggerdy had taken a rifle on the hunting trip, but was not believed to have been carrying food or water supplies. 
 
 However Mr Foggerdy's family described him as an experienced bushman. 
 
 "He loves to camp and hunt, that was his recreational time," Ms Ogden said. 
 
 "He retired from mining and his youngest son's 12, so he spends a lot of time with him, to and from school with his son, and just to get away on a holiday with his brother was the thing he loved mostly. 
 
 "I'm going to get him to get a satellite phone." 
 
 Topics: missing-person, police, emergency-incidents, laverton-6440 
 
 First posted