Source: Multi-News

Photo: Roy Hsu 
 
 In the low-down world of dining and dashing, there are classy thieves and then there are people like Paul Gonzales, an alleged “serial” check-skipper from L.A., whose method involves setting up a dinner date, then ditching the woman before the check arrives. CBS Los Angeles reports that his latest victim is a Bumble match he invited to the local BJ’s brewhouse, where he ordered a steak, a Caesar salad with a side of shrimp, a baked potato, and a glass of wine. Once he’d worked his way through most of that haul (“he left maybe half a baked potato,” the woman says), he said he needed to take a phone call. That’s the last anyone at the restaurant saw of Paul Gonzales. 
 
 He’s reportedly swindled at least two other women with this same trick. One of them says he showed up “very complimentary” at a “romantic” restaurant in Long Beach, but things got weird really fast: He ordered more than $100 worth of food, including an extra entrée he claimed was necessary because he’s “a bodybuilder.” On that occasion, he disappeared during an alleged bathroom trip. 
 
 Not surprisingly at all, Gonzales has a police record with multiple misdemeanors, two warrants out for his arrest, and once even committed something called a “snip and ditch,” which involved him fleeing a hair salon still wearing a smock. Amazingly, when it comes to online dating, women can somehow still do worse. ||||| LONG BEACH (CBSLA.com) — A second woman has come forward to tell the tale of a romantic date gone wrong when the man she met on social media dined, dashed and stiffed her with bill. 
 
 KCAL9’s Andrea Fujii on Thursday talked to the woman who didn’t want to be identified. 
 
 She had no problem identifying her date — Paul Gonzales. She said they met on a dating website in May. 
 
 The plan was a romantic first date at a restaurant in Long Beach. 
 
 “[He was] very complimentary, very chatty, seemed to have similar interests,” she said. 
 
 The woman said things got weird when he ordered over $100 worth of food for himself. 
 
 “This guy is obnoxious,” she thought. “First of all, who orders two entrees? But he excused it by saying he was a bodybuilder.” 
 
 She said when she didn’t reciprocate his advances, he took off and left her holding the check. 
 
 “He says ‘I’m going to the bathroom, I’ll be right back’ and he never did,” she said. 
 
 The woman acknowledges she is very embarrassed but said she came forward after seeing another women tell her similar story on Wednesday evening on the KCAL9 News at 10 p.m. 
 
 “He had an appetizer, he ordered a steak. This restaurant is all ala carte,” said Diane Guilmette. 
 
 Police said the alleged dine-and-dasher also did the same thing to a Burbank hair salon in February. 
 
 RELATED LINK: Police Look For Man Who Allegedly Committed ‘Snip And Ditch’ At Hair Salon 
 
 Security video allegedly caught Gonzales walking out of the salon still wearing his smock. 
 
 Police told Fujii he was arrested on July 23 in that incident but it’s not clear if he’s still behind bars. The LA County DA’s Office says they have two pending petty-theft cases against him. 
 
 The women he dashed out on in May said she didn’t file a police report but now says she will. 
 
 “So, now is my retribution time,” she said. 
 
 Fujii reports that since our story aired Wednesday evening, she also heard from another Burbank hair salon that said Gonzales skipped out on his bill. 
 
 She said she tried reaching out to Gonzales via Facebook, but as of Thursday had not heard back. ||||| A woman said a man skipped out on a meal with her at an LA restaurant,; she later learned the same man had done this before, to at least two other women. (Source: KCAL/KCBS/CNN/social media photos/surveillance video stills) 
 
 LOS ANGELES (KCAL/KCBS/CNN) - The dine-and-dash dater has struck again. A California woman came forward this week to say a man who’s been accused of dining and ditching on the bill with two other women also did it to her. 
 
 As she scrolled through her text messages with Paul Gonzales, the woman, who asked to be identified as Beth, said she thought she was just going on a typical blind date. 
 
 Gonzales asked if she was available for dinner over the weekend, and she said yes. Beth, who wanted to protect her identity, said she met Gonzales on the dating app Bumble. There, he called himself Dave Gonzales. He has since taken down his profile. 
 
 She said when she met him at BJ’s in Pasadena, he ordered right away and after he scarfed down most of his meal, he got up. 
 
 “Left maybe half a baked potato and then received a phone call and said, ‘Oh, I need to take this call. Make sure they don’t take the rest of my meal,'” Beth said of her date. 
 
 But she said he never returned, leaving her with the bill. 
 
 “I was shocked that anybody would do this. And I even texted him, ‘Is everything OK?’ And obviously he never responded,” she said. 
 
 Beth said she went online and discovered previous stories about Gonzales - how he had dined and dashed last summer, leaving at least two other women with large bills. 
 
 Police said he committed a snip-and-ditch when security video caught him leaving a Burbank hair salon with his smock on after getting a cut and color last year. 
 
 Beth said the restaurant was nice enough to comp Gonzales’ meal. She only had to pay for his glass of wine. She now hopes this doesn’t happen again to another unsuspecting date. 
 
 What she wants is “for him to stop doing this to people. It’s just disgusting.” 
 
 Copyright 2017 KCAL/KCBS via CNN. All rights reserved.