Source: Multi-News

FILE - In this Dec. 4, 2012, file photo, software company founder John McAfee listens to a question during an interview at a local restaurant in Guatemala City. McAfee said Sunday, Dec. 9, 2012, a live-stream... (Associated Press) 
 
 A lawyer for John McAfee said Tuesday that a judge has ordered the software company founder released from a Guatemalan detention center where he has been fighting being returned to Belize. 
 
 Attorney Telesforo Guerra said the judge notified him verbally of the ruling, but added that it might take a day for formal written notification to win McAfee's release, possibly as soon as Wednesday. 
 
 Judge Judith Secaida did not immediately return phone calls seeking to confirm the ruling. 
 
 Guerra said Secaida ruled that McAfee's detention was illegal, ordered him released, and gave him 10 days to put his immigration situation in order. It was not immediately clear if McAfee could get some kind of temporary or transit visa to allow him to leave Guatemala. 
 
 McAfee has said he wants to return to the United States with his 20-year-old Belizean girlfriend. Guerra said that would be his client's best option. 
 
 "For me, it's best that McAfee go to the United States, that's definitely the country where he will be safest," Guerra said. "In Guatemala, he runs the risk that anything could happen to him." 
 
 McAfee was detained last week for immigration violations after he sneaked into Guatemala from neighboring Belize. He had been on the lam for weeks before that, saying he donned disguises to avoid Belizean police who want to question him in the fatal shooting in November of another U.S. expatriate, Gregory Viant Faull. 
 
 The victim lived a couple of houses down from McAfee's compound on Ambergris Caye, an island off Belize's Caribbean coast. McAfee acknowledges that his dogs were bothersome and that Faull had complained about them, but denies killing Faull. 
 
 McAfee has said corrupt Belizean authorities are persecuting him, something officials in Belize deny. McAfee says he fears for his safety in Belize because he has sensitive information about official corruption and refused to donate to local politicians. 
 
 In a live-stream Internet broadcast Sunday from the Guatemalan detention center where he was put under the government order that he be returned to Belize, the 67-year-old McAfee said he wants to return to the United States and "settle down to whatever normal life" he can. 
 
 "I simply would like to live comfortably day by day, fish, swim, enjoy my declining years," he said. 
 
 McAfee is an acknowledged practical joker who has dabbled in yoga, ultra-light aircraft and the production of herbal medications. He has led an eccentric life since he sold his stake in the software company named after him in the early 1990s and moved to Belize about three years ago to lower his taxes. 
 
 He told The New York Times in 2009 that he had lost all but $4 million of his $100 million fortune in the U.S. financial crisis. However, a story on the Gizmodo website quoted him as describing that claim as "not very accurate at all." 
 
 Faull's family has said through a representative that McAfee's skillful courting of the media, including blog posts, email messages clandestine interviews, has obscured the point that McAfee should submit to police questioning. ||||| A Guatemalan judge has ordered software mogul John McAfee released from a detention center there, McAfee's lawyer said Tuesday. 
 
 Judge Judith Secaida ruled that McAfee’s detention was illegal, attorney Telesforo Guerra said, adding that the judge also said McAfee should be given 10 days to straighten out his immigration status. The ruling, which Guerra said the judge informed him of verbally, could not be immediately confirmed. 
 
 Guerra said he expects his client to be released by Thursday or Friday, and believes he will seek to return to the United States immediately. McAfee had expressed a desire to return to the U.S. in a live video stream over the weekend, saying he wished to spend his “declining years” in peace. 
 
 “It’s a victory because the government wanted to send him back to Belize,” said Guerra in a phone interview. “With this kind of resolution, they cannot do it.” 
 
 Guerra said that according to Guatemalan law, someone entering illegally has the right to 10 days to establish immigration status. “There is no crime in coming without any visa. If there’s not any crime, the immigration office has to release him.” 
 
 He was arrested last week after officials said he’d entered the country illegally, in an attempt to dodge Belize police who named him a “person of interest” in the fatal shooting of his neighbor, American businessman Gregory Faull. McAfee has become something of a self-styled fugitive (no warrant has been issued against him in Belize) ever since Faull was found face-up in a pool of blood in November. 
 
 Belize police maintain they merely want to question McAfee, who lived near Faull on an exotic island off the coast of Belize. But McAfee, who founded the antivirus company that still bears his name, has said he believes he will be killed if captured by Belize officials. 
 
 McAfee, never far from an Internet connection, has blogged his progress along the way, describing his elaborate disguises and complaints about the corruption of Belize officials even from the immigration detention center where he’s being held. 
 
 “He has all the things that he needs,” said Guerra. “He has his computer, a nice bed and a desk.” 
 
 McAfee told Sky News on Tuesday that he was “100 percent certain” he would be released within 24 hours. 
 
 If McAfee’s predictions hold true, his move to the U.S. could end a weeks-long saga that included McAfee’s disappearance, resurfacing in Guatemala, detention and hospitalization for chest pains. In the latest development McAfee sold the rights to his story to a Montreal-based TV producer. 
 
 Meanwhile, Raphael Martinez, a spokesman for the Belize police department, said it is waiting to see what happens. "Personally," said Martinez in a phone interview, "I'd say if he's not returned to Belize by Thursday or Friday, the chances of him coming back here are very slim." 
 
 Martinez added that he hopes the "good working relationship" Belize has with the United States might assist the police department in its ongoing murder investigation, even if McAfee flies back to the U.S. 
 
 "If he goes back to America ... it would be totally on the onus of the American people whether they want to bring a closure to what has been happening in Belize," Martinez said. 
 
 ALSO: 
 
 John McAfee hospitalized in Guatemala, delaying his deportation 
 
 
 
 McAfee founder surfaces in Guatemala after giving Belize the slip 
 
 John McAfee denied asylum in Guatemala, could be deported to Belize