Source: Multi-News

- Former tennis player John McEnroe tried to explain his statement that fellow tennis player Serena Williams would be ranked "like 700 in the world" if she had to play on the men's circuit, on June 27. () ||||| Safe to say, this John McEnroe-Serena Williams debate has gone from an overblown sports controversy to an entirely pointless one. 
 
 It started on NPR over the weekend when McEnroe, on a promotional tour for his new book, “But Seriously,” caught some heat for a comment he made about Serena Williams: 
 
 Garcia-Navarro: We’re talking about male players but there is of course wonderful female players. Let’s talk about Serena Williams. You say she is the best female player in the world in the book. McEnroe: Best female player ever — no question. Garcia-Navarro: Some wouldn’t qualify it, some would say she’s the best player in the world. Why qualify it? McEnroe: Oh! Uh, she’s not, you mean, the best player in the world, period? Garcia-Navarro: Yeah, the best tennis player in the world. You know, why say female player? McEnroe: Well because if she was in, if she played the men’s circuit she’d be like 700 in the world. Garcia-Navarro: You think so? McEnroe: Yeah. That doesn’t mean I don’t think Serena is an incredible player. I do, but the reality of what would happen would be I think something that perhaps it’d be a little higher, perhaps it’d be a little lower. And on a given day, Serena could beat some players. I believe because she’s so incredibly strong mentally that she could overcome some situations where players would choke ’cause she’s been in it so many times, so many situations at Wimbledon, The U.S. Open, etc. But if she had to just play the circuit — the men’s circuit — that would be an entirely different story. 
 
 As I wrote at the time, it was a pretty ‘gotcha’ line of questioning from the host. McEnroe repeatedly lavished praise on Serena’s ability but didn’t steer away from the line of questioning above, creating a backlash that Serena responded to on Monday: 
 
 Dear John, I adore and respect you but please please keep me out of your statements that are not factually based. — Serena Williams (@serenawilliams) June 26, 2017 
 
 I've never played anyone ranked "there" nor do I have time. Respect me and my privacy as I'm trying to have a baby. Good day sir — Serena Williams (@serenawilliams) June 26, 2017 
 
 McEnroe could’ve just left it there, but his tennis player instinct to volley back apparently cropping back up, he did the opposite. McEnroe doubled down on the comment by refusing to apologize. 
 
 "Would you like to apologize?" — @NorahODonnell 
 
 "No." — John McEnroe pic.twitter.com/BFN8w2EyfY — CBS This Morning (@CBSThisMorning) June 27, 2017 
 
 Clarified that he didn’t know it would create controversy, and that he didn’t intend to bother Serena during her pregnancy. 
 
 "It wasn't necessary…. I didn't know it would create controversy." — John McEnroe on his Serena Williams comments pic.twitter.com/6YAPtZ80mp — CBS This Morning (@CBSThisMorning) June 27, 2017 
 
 Following with a claim that, at 58, he would right now rank 1,200 on if he played full time. 
 
 Where would John McEnroe rank himself? 
 
 "I would be, currently, about 1,200 in the world." pic.twitter.com/KJSMBiuBlY — CBS This Morning (@CBSThisMorning) June 27, 2017 
 
 Before concluding by mockingly re-ranking the best tennis players in history, putting Serena at No. 5. ||||| On Tuesday, John McEnroe joined “CBS This Morning,” where he discussed the controversy surrounding recent comments he made about how Serena Williams would compare to the top men’s tennis players on the planet. 
 
 McEnroe had said, during an interview on NPR’s “Weekend Edition Sunday” over the weekend, that “if [Williams] played the men’s circuit, she’d be, like, 700 in the world.” 
 
 The retired player’s comment led to intense anger. Williams herself eventually criticized McEnroe over Twitter, asking him to “please keep [her] out of [his] statements.” 
 
 When asked on “CBS This Morning” if he would like to apologize, however, McEnroe replied, “Uh, no.” He then said that “tennis [is] unlike other sports ― they’re always asking about how women” would fare against him. 
 
 "Would you like to apologize?" -- @NorahODonnell 
 
 "No." -- John McEnroe pic.twitter.com/BFN8w2EyfY — CBS This Morning (@CBSThisMorning) June 27, 2017 
 
 McEnroe did admit that the comment “wasn’t necessary” and said that Williams is “the greatest female player that ever lived,” ranking her fifth of all-time among men and women. 
 
 But McEnroe often seemed unsure of exactly what to say, leading to a number of rambling sentences and a suggestion that he didn’t want to “upset her” because he didn’t want “anything to go wrong with Serena[’s pregnancy].” 
 
 WATCH: John McEnroe apparently thinks Serena Williams is a hysterical woman who may fall apart because of his comments and go into labor pic.twitter.com/qaDq2Wcejt — Yashar Ali (@yashar) June 27, 2017 ||||| John McEnroe said he will not apologize for claiming Serena Williams is only as good as the 700th-best male tennis player in the world. 
 
 In an interview with CBS This Morning on Tuesday, McEnroe said he would not apologize for the comments, which he made in an interview with NPR on Sunday. 
 
 Instead, McEnore lamented that tennis players are often asked to rank each other, regardless of their gender — which he says athletes in other sports rarely consider. 
 
 When asked why he would make the comment, McEnroe said: “It wasn’t necessary. I didn’t know it would create controversy.” 
 
 “She’s the greatest female player that ever lived,” McEnroe said. 
 
 McEnroe, a retired tennis star who is now promoting his new book, was given the chance to re-do his rankings on CBS This Morning. He placed Williams in the fifth spot. “OK, you happy now?” he appeared to joke. As for himself, McEnroe said he “would be, currently, about 1,200 in the world.” (When he was active in the sport, McEnroe had attained the No. 1 ranking in singles and doubles.) 
 
 Williams called out McEnroe on Twitter Monday evening, asking him to “please please keep me out of your statements that are not factually based.” 
 
 “Respect me and my privacy as I’m trying to have a baby,” Williams, who is pregnant, tweeted. “Good day sir.” 
 
 Williams has won 23 singles Grand Slam titles, 14 more in doubles and is widely regarded as one of the greatest athletes in the world. 
 
 McEnroe’s initial comments came as he was responding to a question from NPR about why he doesn’t call Williams the greatest tennis player, period. 
 
 “If she played the men’s circuit she’d be like 700 in the world,” he said. “That doesn’t mean I don’t think Serena is an incredible player. I do, but the reality of what would happen would be I think something that perhaps it’d be a little higher, perhaps it’d be a little lower.” 
 
 McEnroe’s assessment of Williams’s rank among her male counterparts differs from one he gave in the past. In 2015 after her Wimbledon win, McEnroe called Williams “arguably the greatest athlete of the last 100 years,” according to ESPN.