Source: Multi-News

CLOSE Dominika Egorova, played by Jennifer Lawrence, is left with an uncertain future after her dancing career suddenly ends. Then she finds herself in a world of violence when she becomes a dangerous spy. USA TODAY 
 
 Dominika (Jennifer Lawrence, center left) goes to Sparrow School in the spy thriller 'Red Sparrow.' (Photo: Murray Close) 
 
 Jennifer Lawrence's Red Sparrow spy is no James Bond. Or Jason Bourne. Or Jack Bauer. Or even, for the older folks, Emma Peel. But that's all good. 
 
 In the new thriller based on Jason Matthews' novel, the actress stars as a Russian rookie secret agent who's more liable to use sex as a weapon than, say, a switchblade in her stiletto — though the film is still plenty violent. Red Sparrow (★★½ out of four; rated R; in theaters nationwide Friday) veers from its genre by focusing on methodical spycraft and juggling emotions; unlike Charlize Theron in last year's Atomic Blonde, Lawrence is seducing people instead of kicking them in the face. 
 
 Previously: Jennifer Lawrence on nudity, saying 'no' to selfies and 'Red Sparrow' 
 
 More: Harvey Weinstein sorry he used Meryl Streep, Jennifer Lawrence in his defense 
 
 Dominika Egorova (Lawrence) is a star ballerina in the Bolshoi whose career gets shelved after a horrific injury. To make ends meet and take care of her ailing mother (Joely Richardson), Dominika is recruited by her Uncle Vanya (Matthias Schoenaerts), a major figure in the Russian intelligence service. After a successful first assignment to woo an influential business leader, Vanya sends his niece to Sparrow School, a secretive place run by a stoic matron (Charlotte Rampling) that teaches young men and women to use their sexual wiles for espionage purposes. 
 
 While she's getting trained, CIA operative Nate Nash (Joel Edgerton) tries to find a way back to Moscow after a botched mission involving his contact with a Russian mole. When Nate meets Dominika, they fall for each other and he sees a path to make her a double agent. She's out mostly for survival, though, and the audience is left wondering about her — and many of the characters' — true allegiances. 
 
 Dominika (Jennifer Lawrence) and Nate (Joel Edgerton) fall for each other but the relationship gets complicated in 'Red Sparrow.' (Photo: Murray Close) 
 
 With the exception of her Russian accent, which seems more like an underwhelming audition for a Boris and Natasha cartoon, Lawrence fits the role like a new pair of pointe shoes. The chemistry with Edgerton isn't great but Dominika by herself is a fascinating study, a woman who first uses her body to create exquisite art, later has it used by men, and then takes it back in a big way. 
 
 At nearly 2½ hours, Red Sparrow is overlong for what it needs to be, yet still doesn't spend enough time in Sparrow School, the most interesting aspect of the entire movie. At first, Dominika is taken off guard by weaponizing her sexuality, but in one nude scene opposite a male student in class, she becomes the dominant figure playing mind games and suddenly finds a physical power she never had before. It's startlingly empowering instead of exploitative — unfortunately, it's also fleeting since she never gets the chance to showcase that same sort of tantalizing rawness again. 
 
 More: Jennifer Lawrence slams 'ridiculous' controversy surrounding her Versace dress 
 
 Related: 10 must-see films of 2018, from 'Fantastic Beasts' to 'Mary Poppins' 
 
 Director Francis Lawrence's twisty yarn on the whole is similarly frustrating. There's so much good stuff, but it never jells in a satisfying way. There's a fun episode involving Dominika, Nate and a boozy U.S. senator (Mary-Louise Parker) that's tense and enjoyable, and the filmmaker creates a nice contrast of worlds in the beginning, intercutting shots of the gorgeous Bolshoi Ballet with a chilly twilight meetup in Gorky Park. Other times, Red Sparrow is a hard watch due to its brutality: Dominika is the subject of a cruel and relentless torture sequence, there's a bone break so heinous that you'll feel queasy afterward, and poor Nate gets the business end of a skin slicer. 
 
 With Cold War tensions rising again in real life, Red Sparrow feels of this time in a cool way, but only Lawrence's spy is memorable in this so-so operation. 
 
 Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2FGxWMu ||||| Go to the Legal Help page to request content changes for legal reasons. ||||| In this image released by Twentieth Century Fox, Jennifer Lawrence appears in a scene from "Red Sparrow." (Murray Close/Twentieth Century Fox via AP) (Associated Press) 
 
 In this image released by Twentieth Century Fox, Jennifer Lawrence appears in a scene from "Red Sparrow." (Murray Close/Twentieth Century Fox via AP) (Associated Press) 
 
 In the James Bond films, sex with a globe-trotting spy seems to be fun, fun, fun. A martini, a tuxedo, a witty line or two and then it's off to a luxurious bed with two tanned, muscular bodies. Not so in the new thriller "Red Sparrow ," where the sex is cold, ugly and often violent. 
 
 This dark, meandering and cliche-ridden bummer starring a trying-hard Jennifer Lawrence tries to reach for a cool and stylish look at contemporary spycraft but often falls victim to cartoon violence and a muddled story. The creators may call it erotic but it's as erotic as a visit to the dentist. 
 
 Francis Lawrence, the director of the last three "Hunger Games" films, reunites with Lawrence for more adult fare but one likely to be remembered more for the outdoor junket photos of Lawrence in a thigh-slit dress in chilly London while her male co-creators wore coats. 
 
 Based on a book by former CIA agent Jason Matthews, "Red Sparrow" stars Lawrence as Dominika, a Moscow ballerina who has to rethink her career after a devastating injury. With the advice of her high ranking spy uncle, she goes to a "sparrow" school where the students are taught to use seduction as their main weapon. 
 
 "Every human is a puzzle of need," the stern headmistress played by Charlotte Rampling tells her recruits. "You must become the missing piece and they will tell you everything." 
 
 Dominika isn't buying it and later complains to her uncle, "You sent me to whore school." But she's going to do it — forced to perform sex acts in front of the class — to pay for her sick mother's care, so that gets her conveniently off the hook morally. 
 
 Our heroine is soon unleashed onto the world, a little like Luc Besson's "La Femme Nikita" but without that film's visual coherence or empathy. (Lawrence does sport awesome bangs, so there's that). 
 
 Lawrence as an actress gives her all here, from learning ballet — daily, three-hour rehearsals for three months — to adopting a Russian accent that seems swiped from Natasha from "Rocky and Bullwinkle." ("I haf to ko avay vor a vile," she tells her mom). 
 
 But what really drives Dominika is never very clear, how she goes from a tea-drinking dancer to someone perfectly happy caving in someone's head with a cane. That's partly so viewers don't know where her loyalties lie and will stay intrigued, but she gets lost in what could be a double-cross or triple-cross — or, if you're in withdrawal from the Olympics — the infamous quad-cross. 
 
 Soon you just don't care. "We can't trust a word that comes out of her mouth," one character says of Dominika and he's right. No trust, no care. She's like a reflection of the film itself, getting flatter and more boring by the minute. As a sign of how lost the filmmakers get, a scene about whether or not a false drawer will open becomes the most thrilling element for a good 30 minutes. 
 
 In addition to Rampling, there are fine turns from Jeremy Irons, Douglas Hodge and Mary-Louise Parker (who nevertheless seems to be in a different film altogether.) On the other side, one of the worst casting decisions was making Joel Edgerton Dominika's love interest. He's a puppy dog next to her tiger and there are simply no sparks between them. 
 
 "Red Sparrow" takes place in the languid, rich air of old European capitals and it gains no energy from the mostly — and curiously empty — high-end restaurants, hospitals and swimming pools. There are gorgeous exteriors of Vienna, Budapest, London and lush hotel interiors. The soundtrack is Tchaikovsky and Mozart. It's like an extended ad for Chanel, except for all the gore. 
 
 Gore? Oh yes. There are two rape scenes, several instances of torture — one with a hospital-grade skin peeler — public and naked degradations, a gross garroting, a dead body in a tub with its head in a plastic bag, and more than a hint of incest. The bloodiness in juxtaposition with the bloodless high-end luxury is jarring — but not in a good way. 
 
 Courtesy of screenwriter Justin Haythe, the cliches are all here, from the matching sweatsuits the sparrows wear as they jog on their snowy campus to watching spies wordlessly pass packages in dark and empty parks. A hand-off of political prisoners is staged on an airport tarmac at night, complete with snipers, flashing police lights, enough troops to invade Belgium and the overly dramatic walk each person takes toward freedom. 
 
 This is a film in which interrogators coolly demand confessions in clipped European accents. It's where a demented torturer lovingly unrolls his bag of evil tools like a contestant with a knife roll on "Top Chef." Then he intones: "Do you know how long it takes to peel skin from a human being?" (Spoiler alert: "Hours and hours.") 
 
 Come to think of it, that might be more fun than sitting though "Red Sparrow." 
 
 "Red Sparrow," a 20th Century Fox release, is rated R by the Motion Picture Association of America for "strong violence, torture, sexual content, language and some graphic nudity." Running time: 139 minutes. One star out of four. 
 
 ___ 
 
 MPAA Definition of R: Restricted. Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian. 
 
 ___ 
 
 Online: https://www.foxmovies.com/movies/red-sparrow 
 
 ___ 
 
 Mark Kennedy is at http://twitter.com/KennedyTwits ||||| Unlike in Bond movies, though, there are few self-aware winks in “Red Sparrow.” Working from Justin Haythe’s script, Mr. Lawrence folds in moments of levity (a delectably acid and funny Mary-Louise Parker stirs things up), but “Red Sparrow” mostly hews closer in grim vibe and viciousness to Bourne than to Bond. And, in classic fashion, Dominika endures the extremes of punishment — penance that centers on her pulverized, near-martyred body — that often come with heroic journeys. The rawness of the violence is startling, partly because despite “Atomic Blonde” and other female-driven movies, it’s still unusual to see a woman receive (and freely mete out) such barbarity. 
 
 That may not be everyone’s idea of progress, but it’s both appealing and crucial that “Red Sparrow” doesn’t soft sell Dominika. There’s an attractive, recognizable toughness to her as well as a febrile intensity born from need and circumstances, including the existential reality of being a woman in a man’s world. Dominika is sentimental (mostly about her mother), but she isn’t sentimentalized and never becomes the movie’s virgin or its whore, its femme fatale or good girl. She’s just the one carrying the fast-track story. And when Dominika becomes involved with Nate, it’s because, well, that’s how the roles were written. Ms. Lawrence and Mr. Edgerton never manage to spark, but it scarcely matters; their characters are too busy to seriously moon over each other. 
 
 As she does, Ms. Lawrence goes all in, seamlessly meeting the movie’s physical demands — whether she’s dancing onstage or crawling in blood — while turning Dominika into a character who grows more real with each unreal scene. She worked with Mr. Lawrence on three “Hunger Games” movies, and this shared history probably smoothed some of the story’s edges, and may also explain why “Red Sparrow” moves so fluidly even as the story nuttily kinks and bounces around locations. 
 
 It helps that Ms. Lawrence, like all great stars, can slip into a role as if sliding into another skin, unburdened by hesitation or self-doubt. Craft and charm are part of what she brings to this role, as well as a serviceable accent, but it’s her absolute ease and certainty that carry you through “Red Sparrow.” She was born to screen stardom, and it’s a blast to see where it’s taking her. ||||| Red Sparrow 
 
 Francis Lawrence narrates a sequence from the film featuring Jennifer Lawrence and Joel Edgerton. (The New York Times) 
 
 Starring Jennifer Lawrence, Joel Edgerton, Charlotte Rampling, Matthias Schoenaerts, Mary-Louise Parker, Jeremy Irons and Ciaran Hinds. Directed by Francis Lawrence. Opens Friday at GTA theatres. 140 minutes. 18A Red Sparrow is a brutal, muddled and dispiriting watch, but it may inadvertently be one of the more accurate screen depictions of the messy world of espionage. This is not a recommendation. The James Bond franchise and other spy movies have created a cool image of the profession, blending fashion, sex, technology and martial arts. 
 
 Article Continued Below 
 
 Red Sparrow, which stars Jennifer Lawrence as a Bolshoi Ballet star turned sex-trade sleuth, offers almost none of these enticements. It functions as the anti-007 (or non-Atomic Blonde) in its sadistic spy vs. spy stuff. The sex is rape by any name, the tech is ancient floppy disks and the fighting is artless and bloody — one guy is killed by a door handle, another has his skin flayed by a razor, two people are bludgeoned to death by a golf club. As for fashion, Lawrence’s Dominika rocks the red dress she wears early on, when she’s tricked by her sleazy uncle Ivan (Matthias Schoenaerts) to join Russia’s “sparrow” program, a.k.a. “whore school.” But the dress is soon off. She’s obliged to trade sex for foreign secrets, under the tutelage of an unsmiling matron (Charlotte Rampling). As a reward for this service to the state, Dominika’s sick mother (Joely Richardson) gets medical care. Lawrence and her no-relation helmer Francis Lawrence, who directed her in three Hunger Games films, struggle to make an action movie out of ex-spy Jason Matthews’ dense novel and Justin Haythe’s overly plotted screenplay. 
 
 Jennifer Lawrence in Red Sparrow. ( Murray Close / AP ) Jon Hamm as a Las Vegas dealer in memorabilia in Nostalgia. ( Bleecker Street Media / Bleecker Street Media ) This image released by Roadside Attractions shows Patricia Clarkson, left, and Kristin Scott Thomas in a scene from The Party. ( Nicola Dove / AP ) Shirley Henderson is shown in a scene from Never Steady, Never Still. ( THE CANADIAN PRESS ) Saoirse Ronan in Lady Bird. ( Merie Wallace / AP ) 
 
 The story shuttles between Moscow and Budapest, but the accents go in all directions — especially Lawrence’s dodgy Russian one, which approaches parody. American, British (Jeremy Irons) and Irish (Ciarán Hinds) actors play Russians, while Australia’s Joel Edgerton doubles down with an uncertain Yankee accent and name: Nate Nash, a rebel CIA operative. 
 
 Cinematography by Hunger Games lenser Jo Willems is as cold and grey as those films tend to be, but here again, that’s probably a virtue in the context of a movie’s drive for authenticity — perhaps a little too much, given the toll it takes on dramatic interest. It’s only when Mary-Louise Parker turns up as the drunk, greedy and careless Nina, top aide to a U.S. senator, that the story momentarily gets interesting, even a little amusing. Considering that Nina probably works for one of Trump’s hapless Republicans, even this portrayal has a ring of truth, although probably not in the way anybody intended. 
 
 Article Continued Below 
 
 Peter Howell Nostalgia 
 
 Starring Jon Hamm, Catherine Keener. Co-written and directed by Mark Pellington. Opens Friday at Cineplex Yonge-Dundas. 110 minutes. 14A Nostalgia explores the inevitable loss of the things we hold precious, how we strive to hold them in memory and how we let them go. It’s a story beautifully told at an unhurried pace by director Mark Pellington that’s sure to touch everyone who sees it in a very personal way. The film is structured as a series of stories that segue as one character hands off the narrative to the next, starting with insurance adjuster Daniel (John Ortiz) visiting Ronnie, a lonely widower in a cluttered home, and then moving to Helen, faced with the agonizing choice of what to save in a fire, and then to Will, a buyer and seller of collectibles, who visits his sister as they close up their old family home. It is here that fresh tragedy strikes. Pellington has assembled a standout cast, including stalwarts Bruce Dern as Ronnie and Ellen Burstyn as Helen. Jon Hamm delivers a finely textured performance as Will and Catherine Keener’s performance as sister Donna will tear at your heart. It’s a film steeped in melancholy that gently reminds us to live life fully before it’s time to say goodbye. Bruce DeMara The Party 
 
 Starring Kristin Scott Thomas, Timothy Spall. Written and directed by Sally Potter. Opens Friday at the Varsity. 71 minutes. 14A A knock at the door is answered by a crazed woman with a gun. Writer/director Sally Potter knows how to open a story. Jump back to a few hours earlier, as Janet and Bill are hosting a party of their closest friends to celebrate her elevation to a senior post in government. But the celebration is short-lived as complication and conflict soon follow. Bill (Timothy Spall) is getting determinedly bombed while spinning vinyl, April (Patricia Clarkson) snipes constantly at her New Age holistic healer spouse Gottfried (Bruno Ganz), Tom (Cillian Murphy) sweats profusely and snorts coke in the loo while awaiting the arrival of his wife, Maryanne, and Jinny (Emily Mortimer) realizes that Martha (Cherry Jones) isn’t truly on board regarding their impending maternity. Potter shoots the film aptly in black and white and shows an adeptness for stinging wit and droll dialogue. The cast is superb, especially Clarkson, who gets most of the good lines. It’s not entirely satisfying but Potter delivers a darkly delicious comedy of manners. BD Never Steady, Never Still 
 
 Starring Shirley Henderson, Theodore Pellerin. Written and directed by Kathleen Hepburn. Opens Friday at Famous Players Canada Square. 112 minutes. 14A Filmmaker Kathleen Hepburn’s first feature-length film is sweet, sad and unapologetically Canadian. It follows the travails of Judy (Shirley Henderson), a woman struggling to live with Parkinson’s Disease while trying to launch her son Jamie into the world. “You’ve got to live your life,” she tells Jamie in one particularly poignant following a death that will leave her alone to fend for herself in her isolated northern home. Jamie (Théodore Pellerin) has plenty of troubles of his own, among them a hard, lonely life working as a roughneck in the oilpatch and trying to come to terms with his sexual identity. Henderson delivers a truly impressive performance as Judy, allowing us to see the strong, sensitive woman behind the disability. Pellerin demonstrates strong screen presence as her tormented son. There’s some great supporting work from Nicholas Campbell as Ed and Mary Galloway as Kaly, a teenager dealing with her pregnancy alone. It’s rather bleak but the camera work is exceptional, the pace languorous and Hepburn’s screenplay deliberately ambiguous. BD Lady Bird (DVD) 
 
 Starring Saoirse Ronan, Laurie Metcalf, Tracy Letts, Lucas Hedges, Timothée Chalamet, Lois Smith and Beanie Feldstein. Written and directed by Greta Gerwig. Out March 6 on DVD. 94 minutes. 14A The funniest and most heartfelt movie of 2017 marked Greta Gerwig’s debut as solo writer/director, an outstanding achievement for the loveably daffy star of Frances Ha and Mistress America. This coming-of-ager achieves flight in its own unique way, like the aerodynamically unorthodox ladybug the title tips to. Saoirse Ronan is a riot as the college-bound title rebel, her most lived-in role to date. The wily and resourceful Lady Bird is really just an awkward kid trying hard to turn “nope” into hope. Laurie Metcalf also scores as Lady Bird’s sweet-and-sour mom and Tracy Letts quietly impresses as the defeated yet loving dad. The film’s multiple Oscar noms, Best Picture and Best Director among them, are all deserved. There’s much love in how Gerwig’s keen eye manages to make her hometown Sacramento look good, better than Lady Bird would ever admit. One perfectly just-so scene places the teen inside a colourful wall mural, like a distaff Where’s Waldo? Extras include an audio commentary by Gerwig and cinematographer Sam Levy and a making-of featurette. PH