Source: Multi-News

Tweet with a location 
 
 You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more ||||| CLOSE ABC pulls the plug on 'Roseanne' after racist tweet Josmar Taveras, USA TODAY 
 
 Roseanne Barr in October 2017. (Photo: Richard Shotwell, Invision/AP) 
 
 That didn't last long. 
 
 Roseanne Barr is back on Twitter hours after her racist tweet about former Obama White House adviser Valerie Jarrett led to the cancellation of her hit ABC show Roseanne. 
 
 On Tuesday night, Barr retweeted followers who called ABC's decision to ax her show hypocritical, and replied that she thought that the target of her tweet was "Saudi" and didn't realize the racist implications of her post. At one point, she defended herself by tweeting: "yes, I mistakenly thought (Jarrett) was white." 
 
 "Don't feel sorry for me, guys!!" she wrote in a separate post. "I just want to apologize to the hundreds of people, and wonderful writers (all liberal) and talented actors who lost their jobs on my show due to my stupid tweet." 
 
 She even offered an explanation as to what caused her to tweet. 
 
 "It was 2 in the morning and I was ambien tweeting-it was memorial day too-i went 2 far & do not want it defended-it was egregious Indefensible," Barr tweeted. "I made a mistake I wish I hadn't but...don't defend it please. ty." 
 
 guys I did something unforgiveable so do not defend me. It was 2 in the morning and I was ambien tweeting-it was memorial day too-i went 2 far & do not want it defended-it was egregious Indefensible. I made a mistake I wish I hadn't but...don't defend it please. ty — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) May 30, 2018 
 
 She also issued an additional apology to Jarrett, tagging her in a tweet. "@ValerieJarrett i don't know if u saw it, but I wanted2 apologize to u 4 hurting and upsetting u with an insensitive & tasteless tweet," Barr wrote. "I am truly sorry-my whole life has been about fighting racism. I made a terrible mistake wh caused hundreds of ppl 2 lose their jobs. so sorry!" 
 
 @ValerieJarrett i don't know if u saw it, but I wanted2 apologize to u 4 hurting and upsetting u with an insensitive & tasteless tweet. I am truly sorry-my whole life has been about fighting racism. I made a terrible mistake wh caused hundreds of ppl 2 lose their jobs. so sorry! — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) May 30, 2018 
 
 Barr's tweet spree began several hours after Channing Dungey, president of ABC Entertainment, issued a statement to USA TODAY denouncing Barr's original tweet, after the star's apology failed to halt a backlash that included the show's consulting producer, Wanda Sykes. 
 
 "Roseanne's Twitter statement is abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with our values, and we have decided to cancel her show," Dungey's statement read. 
 
 Barr's comment, which has now been deleted, was sent in response to a tweet that accused Jarrett of helping "hide" misdeeds for the Obama administration. 
 
 "muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes had a baby=vj,” Barr wrote, using Jarrett's initials. Jarrett, 61, is African American and worked for Obama from 2009 to 2017. 
 
 Barr apologized for the tweet, describing it as "a bad joke." 
 
 I apologize to Valerie Jarrett and to all Americans. I am truly sorry for making a bad joke about her politics and her looks. I should have known better. Forgive me-my joke was in bad taste. — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) May 29, 2018 
 
 "I apologize to Valerie Jarrett and to all Americans. I am truly sorry for making a bad joke about her politics and her looks," Barr said. "I should have known better. Forgive me — my joke was in bad taste." 
 
 Barr's agency, ICM Partners, said in a statement Tuesday that Barr's tweet was "disgraceful," ''unacceptable" and "antithetical to our core values." The talent representative says it has ended its relationship with Barr "effective immediately." 
 
 Viacom cable networks Paramount Network, TV Land and CMT will be pulling all Roseanne reruns from their schedules beginning Wednesday. And Hulu yanked episodes of the series. 
 
 Jarrett responded Tuesday during a previously scheduled appearance on the MSNBC special Everyday Racism in America. "I think we have to turn it into a teaching moment," she said. 
 
 On the program, which airs Tuesday night, Jarrett added, "I’m fine. I’m worried about all the people out there who don’t have a circle of friends and followers coming to their defense." 
 
 Roseanne comedy returned to ABC in March, two decades after it ended its first run from 1988 to 1997, reuniting the original cast including John Goodman, Laurie Metcalf and Sara Gilbert. 
 
 The much-awaited 10th season's two-episode opener attracted 18.2 million viewers in preliminary Nielsen ratings, making it the season's top premiere. The return was large enough to prompt ABC to quickly order another season. 
 
 But the show has been beset by controversy. 
 
 Dealing with hot-button issues such as health care, social security and opioid addiction, the reboot received backlash for some of its pointed jokes, including jabs at minority-led series Black-ish and Fresh Off the Boat. 
 
 Most of the dissent has been focused on the show's star. Barr only recently returned to Twitter after taking a break from the social media site following a December feud with people who responded harshly to her tweets praising President Trump and criticizing Hillary Clinton. 
 
 More: Inside Roseanne Barr’s history of offensive tweets 
 
 While Barr received a congratulatory call from Trump after the heated exchange, even then, fellow comedians were left with mixed feelings. 
 
 On Tuesday, Sykes was the first to announce she'd pull out of the show with a short and simple message of disapproval. 
 
 "I will not be returning to @RoseanneOnABC," she wrote on Twitter. 
 
 Gilbert, who plays Darlene Conner on the show, also denounced Barr's comments. 
 
 Roseanne’s recent comments about Valerie Jarrett, and so much more, are abhorrent and do not reflect the beliefs of our cast and crew or anyone associated with our show. I am disappointed in her actions to say the least. — sara gilbert (@THEsaragilbert) May 29, 2018 
 
 "Roseanne’s recent comments about Valerie Jarrett, and so much more, are abhorrent and do not reflect the beliefs of our cast and crew or anyone associated with our show," she tweeted. "I am disappointed in her actions to say the least." 
 
 Emma Kenney, who plays Darlene's eldest child, Harris Conner-Healy, shared her disapproval. 
 
 "I am hurt, embarrassed, and disappointed. The racist and distasteful comments from Roseanne are inexcusable," she wrote. 
 
 Writer Danny Zuker also tweeted his disapproval. 
 
 "I wrote on the original "Roseanne" where we used to denounce nativism, racism & homophobia. Nauseating to see what she's become," he wrote. "Looking forward to continue not watching this show." 
 
 Actor Don Cheadle called out the apparent racism in Barr's tweets. 
 
 you can take @RoseanneOnABC out of racism but you can’t take the racism out of @therealroseanne ... https://t.co/sJs7Hn5zrn — Don Cheadle (@DonCheadle) May 29, 2018 
 
 "you can take @RoseanneOnABC out of racism but you can’t take the racism out of @therealroseanne," he said. 
 
 Actress Patricia Arquette also spoke up. 
 
 I am repulsed that Valerie Jarret had that racist and bigoted "joke" made at her expense and I am sickened that any Black or Muslim person has to keep hearing this sickness in 2018. — Patricia Arquette (@PattyArquette) May 29, 2018 
 
 "I am repulsed that Valerie Jarret had that racist and bigoted "joke" made at her expense and I am sickened that any Black or Muslim person has to keep hearing this sickness in 2018," she wrote. 
 
 Some tweeted their support for the actress, including British media personality Katie Hopkins. 
 
 "Never apologise @therealroseanne It only encourages the (expletive). Stand Strong," she wrote with the hashtag #MAGA. 
 
 Rosie O'Donnell called Barr's tweets "racist" and "childish" but overall seemed to accept the actress' apology. 
 
 i love roseanne quite a bit 
 
 
 
 the comment roseanne tweeted was racist and childish 
 
 and beneath her best self 
 
 she has apologized 
 
 
 
 twitter is a dangerous place — ROSIE (@Rosie) May 29, 2018 
 
 Actor Tom Arnold, Barr's ex-husband, who played Arnie Thomas in the original Roseanne series, also weighed in. 
 
 Anyone who worked on "Roseanne" 88'-94' knows there's a 50% chance Rosey calls me today & tells me to go fire Donald Trump. 
 
 They also know there's 100% chance I'd show up at the White House, give him 5 mins to say goodbye & get his crap before I through him & it out the window. — Tom Arnold (@TomArnold) May 29, 2018 
 
 "Anyone who worked on 'Roseanne' 88'-94' knows there's a 50% chance Rosey calls me today & tells me to go fire Donald Trump," he wrote. "They also know there's 100% chance I'd show up at the White House, give him 5 mins to say goodbye & get his crap before I through him & it out the window." 
 
 Contributing: Carly Mallenbaum, Andrea Mandell, Erin Jensen 
 
 More: Roseanne Barr defends her Trump support with F-bomb on 'Tonight Show' 
 
 More: 'Late Night with Seth Meyers' writer Amber Ruffin destroys 'racist' 'Roseanne' 
 
 Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2ITInkM ||||| ‘Roseanne’ canceled after star’s racist tweet 
 
 ABC canceled the relaunched “Roseanne” program on Tuesday amid an uproar over a racist tweet by Roseanne Barr, the show’s lead actor, about Valerie Jarrett, a longtime adviser and close friend of former President Barack Obama‘s. 
 
 “Roseanne’s Twitter statement is abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with our values, and we have decided to cancel her show,” ABC Entertainment’s president, Channing Dungey, said in a statement. 
 
 Story Continued Below 
 
 Facing a fevered backlash over social media, Barr apologized on Tuesday for making the comment about Jarrett. 
 
 Over Twitter, the edgy star of the newly relaunched ABC sitcom sparked a firestorm by writing of Jarrett: “muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes had a baby=vj.” Jarrett was born in Iran and is African-American. 
 
 Morning Media Your guide to the media circus — weekday mornings, in your inbox. Email Sign Up By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time. 
 
 Barr initially responded to criticism suggesting the remark was a “joke.” But as calls quickly grew for both ABC and sponsors to drop the sitcom, she later offered a full-throated apology. 
 
 “I apologize to Valerie Jarrett and to all Americans,” Barr wrote. “I am truly sorry for making a bad joke about her politics and her looks. I should have known better. Forgive me — my joke was in bad taste.” 
 
 I apologize to Valerie Jarrett and to all Americans. I am truly sorry for making a bad joke about her politics and her looks. I should have known better. Forgive me-my joke was in bad taste. — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) May 29, 2018 
 
 Jarrett, now a senior fellow at the University of Chicago Law School, told MSNBC during a pre-taped town hall-style program on racism set to air Tuesday night that she was “fine“ in the wake of Barr‘s remarks. But she added that the controversy should serve as a “teaching moment“ on the pervasiveness of everyday racism. 
 
 “I think we have to turn it into a teaching moment,“ Jarrett said, according to a clip released by the network. “I‘m fine. I'm worried about all the people out there who don't have a circle of friends and followers who come right to their defense.“ 
 
 According to the network, the former Obama adviser added that the Walt Disney Company’s chairman and CEO, Robert Iger, whose company owns ABC, called her before announcing the cancellation of the program. After the program was dropped, Iger tweeted: “There was only one thing to do here, and that was the right thing.” 
 
 From Channing Dungey, President of ABC Entertainment: "Roseanne's Twitter statement is abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with our values, and we have decided to cancel her show." 
 
 There was only one thing to do here, and that was the right thing. — Robert Iger (@RobertIger) May 29, 2018 
 
 The cancellation signals a victory for critics of the show, who scrutinized ABC’s decision to revive the popular 1990s sitcom despite lingering concerns over Barr’s incendiary comments online. It also marks the end of a show that drew praise from President Donald Trump, who was supported by both Barr and her fictional TV character. 
 
 After the premiere of the “Roseanne” reboot drew nearly 20 million viewers in March, Trump celebrated its ratings success during a rally in Ohio. “Look at her ratings! Look at her ratings!” Trump told the crowd, attributing the figures partly to himself and his supporters. 
 
 Trump has long touted ratings as a barometer of sorts for success, both as the former face of NBC’s “The Apprentice” and as a politician. And the popularity of Barr’s program was widely seen as linked to the populist surge that helped Trump clinch the presidency in 2016. 
 
 Asked about Barr’s comments and the subsequent cancellation, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said on Tuesday that Trump's focus lay elsewhere. 
 
 She told reporters aboard Air Force One that “the president is focused on North Korea. He’s focused on trade deals. And he’s focused on rebuilding our military, the economy. And that’s what he’s spending his time on, not responding to other things.“ 
 
 Trump himself made no mention of the controversy on Tuesday night during a rally for a Senate candidate in Nashville, Tennessee. 
 
 ABC’s decision to drop the show was celebrated by several legislators. 
 
 “Thank you, @ABCNetwork. You did the right thing,” tweeted Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.), a civil rights icon who marched alongside the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. in the 1960s. “There is not any room in our society for racism or bigotry.” 
 
 Rep. Adriano Espaillat (D-N.Y.), the first formerly undocumented immigrant to serve in Congress, tweeted: “Thank you @ABC for standing up to reaffirm that racism and bigotry will NOT be tolerated.” 
 
 In response to the TV star’s remarks, David Axelrod, a longtime Jarrett friend and White House colleague, took aim at Barr earlier on Tuesday. 
 
 “I’m proud of Valerie and the extraordinary life and contributions she’s made,” Axelrod said in an email Tuesday. “Can anyone say the same about that tweet? It brands itself.” 
 
 It appears the original tweet was since taken down. 
 
 Prior to the show’s cancellation, Wanda Sykes, who described herself as a consulting producer for the program, tweeted that she “will not be returning” to “Roseanne.” And Sara Gilbert, who plays the daughter to Barr’s character, Roseanne Conner, on the show, expressed disappointment over the “abhorrent” remarks on social media. 
 
 I will not be returning to @RoseanneOnABC. — Wanda Sykes (@iamwandasykes) May 29, 2018 
 
 “Roseanne’s recent comments about Valerie Jarrett, and so much more, are abhorrent and do not reflect the beliefs of our cast and crew or anyone associated with our show,” Gilbert tweeted. “I am disappointed in her actions to say the least.” 
 
 She added: “This is incredibly sad and difficult for all of us, as we’ve created a show that we believe in, are proud of, and that audiences love — one that is separate and apart from the opinions and words of one cast member.” 
 
 Roseanne’s recent comments about Valerie Jarrett, and so much more, are abhorrent and do not reflect the beliefs of our cast and crew or anyone associated with our show. I am disappointed in her actions to say the least. — sara gilbert (@THEsaragilbert) May 29, 2018 
 
 The network had faced renewed pressure on Tuesday to address incendiary public remarks from Barr, who has sparked controversy by propagating unsubstantiated conspiracy theories online. Her remarks on Jarrett prompted a fresh round of calls for companies to drop their ads on the program. 
 
 In a separate Twitter screed earlier on Tuesday, Barr took aim at Chelsea Clinton, the daughter of former President Bill Clinton and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, as well as at George Soros, the billionaire political donor who started the the grantmaking network Open Society Foundations. Barr, who is Jewish, accused Soros of being “a nazi who turned in his fellow Jews 2 be murdered in German concentration camps,” and suggested that Chelsea Clinton is married to a member of his family, tweeting: “Chelsea Soros Clinton.” 
 
 Good morning Roseanne - my given middle name is Victoria. I imagine George Soros’s nephews are lovely people. I’m just not married to one. I am grateful for the important work @OpenSociety does in the world. Have a great day! https://t.co/mXokiTEwN7 — Chelsea Clinton (@ChelseaClinton) May 29, 2018 
 
 Two of the messages were retweeted by Donald Trump Jr., the president’s oldest son. A representative for him did not respond to a request for comment on the remarks or the “Roseanne” cancellation. 
 
 Chelsea Soros Clinton — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) May 29, 2018 
 
 Sorry to have tweeted incorrect info about you!I Please forgive me! By the way, George Soros is a nazi who turned in his fellow Jews 2 be murdered in German concentration camps & stole their wealth-were you aware of that? But, we all make mistakes, right Chelsea? — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) May 29, 2018 
 
 Clinton and a representative for Soros refuted Barr’s incendiary remarks. 
 
 “Good morning Roseanne — my given middle name is Victoria,” Clinton tweeted. “I imagine George Soros’s nephews are lovely people. I’m just not married to one. I am grateful for the important work @OpenSociety does in the world. Have a great day!” 
 
 In an email, a spokesperson for Soros blasted Barr’s allegations: “He did not collaborate with the Nazis. He did not help round up people. He did not confiscate anybody’s property. Such false allegations are insulting to the victims of the Holocaust, to all Jewish people, and to anyone who honors the truth. They are an affront to Mr. Soros and his family, who against the odds managed to survive one of the darkest moments in our history.” 
 
 ||||| Roseanne’s recent comments about Valerie Jarrett, and so much more, are abhorrent and do not reflect the beliefs of our cast and crew or anyone associated with our show. I am disappointed in her actions to say the least. ||||| Wanda Sykes has had enough of Roseanne. 
 
 The actress and comedian is credited as a consulting producer on the hit ABC sitcom. 
 
 But Sykes, whose credits also include on-camera roles on ABC’s black-ish and HBO’s Curb Your Enthusiasm, just tweeted this: 
 
 I will not be returning to @RoseanneOnABC. — Wanda Sykes (@iamwandasykes) May 29, 2018 
 
 The statement comes after Barr made a racist tweet Tuesday attacking former President Obama senior advisor Valerie Jarrett. 
 
 Barr used Jarrett’s initials and said “Muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes had a baby.” 
 
 Later the ABC prime-time star issued a full-fledged apology: 
 
 I apologize to Valerie Jarrett and to all Americans. I am truly sorry for making a bad joke about her politics and her looks. I should have known better. Forgive me-my joke was in bad taste. — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) May 29, 2018 
 
 Barr recently finished the first season of her rebooted sitcom, which ranked as one of the most-watched shows of the TV season. Ironically, Barr’s joke comes after her show drew some degree of praise for an episode that had the Connors meeting their new Muslim neighbors. 
 
 ABC renewed the series for a second season which will debut this fall. 
 
 ABC has not yet commented. 
 
 UPDATE: ABC has canceled Roseanne (!). ||||| Tweet with a location 
 
 You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more