Source: Multi-News

A general view of Taliban office in Doha before the official opening in Doha, Qatar, Tuesday, June 18, 2013. In a major breakthrough, the Taliban and the U.S. announced Tuesday that they will hold talks... (Associated Press) 
 
 The Afghan president on Wednesday suspended talks with the United States on a new security deal to protest the way his government was being left out of initial peace negotiations with the Taliban meant to find ways to end the nearly 12-year war. 
 
 The move by Hamid Karzai could derail the peace process even before it has begun. 
 
 In a terse statement from his office, Karzai said negotiations with the U.S. on what American and coalition security forces will remain in the country after 2014 have been put on hold. 
 
 The statement followed an announcement Tuesday by the U.S. and the Taliban that they would pursue bilateral talks in Qatar before the Afghan government was brought in. 
 
 "In view of the contradiction between acts and the statements made by the United States of America in regard to the peace process, the Afghan government suspended the negotiations, currently underway in Kabul between Afghan and U.S. delegations on the bilateral security agreement," Karzai's statement said. 
 
 His spokesman was not immediately reachable for questions, and the U.S. Embassy in Kabul said nobody was available for immediate comment. 
 
 Though the Taliban have dismissed Karzai as an American puppet for years, they indicated Tuesday when opening a new political office in Doha, Qatar, that they would be willing to talk with the Afghan leader. 
 
 But both the American side and the Taliban said they would first meet together before any talks with the Afghanistan government. 
 
 In another incident highlighting the fragile situation in Afghanistan, only hours after announcing they would hold talks with the U.S., the Taliban claimed responsibility Wednesday for an attack on the Bagram Air Base in which four American troops were killed. 
 
 Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid said the insurgents fired two rockets into the base outside the Afghan capital, Kabul, late on Tuesday. American officials confirmed the base had come under attack by indirect fire _ likely a mortar or rocket _ and that four U.S. troops were killed. 
 
 Also Tuesday, five Afghan police officers were killed at a security outpost in Helmand province by apparent Taliban infiltrators _ the latest in a string of so-called "insider attacks" that have shaken the confidence of the nascent Afghan security forces. 
 
 The opening of a Taliban political office in Doha with the intention of starting peace talks was a reversal of months of failed efforts to start negotiations while Taliban militants intensified a campaign targeting urban centers and government installations across Afghanistan. 
 
 President Barack Obama cautioned that the peace talks with the Taliban would be neither quick nor easy but that their opening a political office in Doha was an "important first step toward reconciliation" between the Islamic militants and the government of Afghanistan. 
 
 In setting up the office, the Taliban said they were willing to use all legal means to end what they called the occupation of Afghanistan _ but did not say they would immediately stop fighting. 
 
 American officials said the U.S. and Taliban representatives will hold bilateral meetings in the coming days. Karzai's High Peace Council had been expected to follow up with its own talks with the Taliban a few days later but it was now not clear whether that would happen. 
 
 The Taliban announcement followed a milestone handover in Afghanistan earlier Tuesday as Afghan forces formally took the lead from the U.S.-led NATO coalition for security nationwide. It marked a turning point for American and NATO military forces, which will now move entirely into a supporting role. 
 
 The handover paves the way for the departure of the majority of coalition forces _ currently numbering about 100,000 troops from 48 countries, including 66,000 Americans _ within 18 months. 
 
 The NATO-led force is to be cut in half by the end of the year, and by the end of 2014 all combat troops are to leave and be replaced _ contingent on Afghan governmental approval _ by a smaller force that would be on hand for training and advising. 
 
 It was not immediately clear how long Karzai planned to suspend the negotiations on the agreement. 
 
 The U.S. has not yet said how many troops will remain in Afghanistan, but it is thought that it would be a force made up of about 9,000 Americans and 6,000 allies. 
 
 Six years ago, Afghan security forces numbered fewer than 40,000, and have grown to about 352,000 today. But questions remain if they are good enough to fight alone. 
 
 In the Helmand attack late Tuesday, local official Mohammad Fahim Mosazai said five police officers who had only been on the local force for three months were killed, apparently by five of their fellow officers. He blamed the killings on Taliban infiltrators, and said the suspects escaped with the victims' weapons. 
 
 In a similar attack in Helmand a week ago, six policemen were found shot dead at their checkpoint, and there have been several other such incidents in the past year, including officers poisoned while eating. 
 
 Taliban insurgents have warned they would infiltrate Afghan security forces to carry out insider attacks. 
 
 Overnight in the eastern province of Nangrahar, police ambushed Taliban fighters outside a village in the Surkh Rod district, killing four and capturing two militants. Two police officers were wounded in the fighting, said deputy provincial police chief Masoon Khan Hashimi. ||||| KABUL, Afghanistan — In a bid to regain control of a peace process with the Taliban that had suddenly spun out of control, President Hamid Karzai on Wednesday slammed the brakes on two strategic lines of American negotiation, again exercising his power in a strained alliance and getting results. 
 
 Mr. Karzai reacted in fury after an apparent diplomatic breakthrough on Tuesday — the opening of a Taliban peace office in Qatar — instead became a publicity coup for the Taliban. In televised images that horrified many Afghans, the Taliban introduced what appeared to be an embassy, raising their flag, speaking in front of a sign declaring the “Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan,” the name of their former government and seeking international exposure. 
 
 First, Mr. Karzai broke off long-term security talks with the United States, accusing the Americans of failing to deliver on promises to keep the Taliban from grandstanding. Soon after, his office announced that the government delegation would stay away from the talks until the insurgents removed their symbolic displays of being an alternative government. 
 
 Photo 
 
 The president’s gambit appeared to work: In a turbulent 24 hours of nonstop diplomatic moves, Secretary of State John Kerry called Mr. Karzai three times and successfully pushed the Qatari government to get the Taliban to take down the sign and flag, American and Afghan officials said. 
 
 “The office must not be treated as or represent itself as an embassy or other office representing the Afghan Taliban as an emirate government or sovereign,” said the State Department spokeswoman, Jennifer R. Psaki. 
 
 However, there was much to repair from the events of the past two days, and many Afghan political figures expressed a sense of having been betrayed by both the Americans and the Taliban. 
 
 Through it all, Mr. Karzai again showed his willingness to halt American initiatives unilaterally when his allies displeased him, as he did earlier this year in forcing them to hand over detention operations and banning American Special Operations forces from a strategic district. 
 
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
 
 However, the American response was much faster and complied unambiguously with Mr. Karzai’s demands this time, in part because they struck directly at two of the most critical parts of the Obama administration’s long-term vision for Afghanistan: entering peace talks with the Taliban to help curb the insurgency as Western troops withdraw and reaching an agreement to allow a lasting American military force past 2014. 
 
 At the same time, it became increasingly apparent that the Taliban, at little cost in binding promises or capital, were seizing the peace process as a stage for publicity and giving the Americans a stark lesson in the complications that could be posed by the diplomatic overtures. 
 
 Photo 
 
 The rapid-fire developments Wednesday came a day after the American military formally handed over control of security in all of Afghanistan to Afghan forces, followed hours later with the three sides’ announcement that peace talks would begin in Doha. 
 
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
 
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
 
 The opening was hailed by American officials as a breakthrough after 18 months of stalled peace efforts, though they cautioned that a long road remained ahead. 
 
 Meanwhile, the Taliban played to the cameras. 
 
 The insurgents opened their Doha office with a lavish ceremony that included a ribbon cutting and the playing of the Taliban anthem, with the Qatari deputy foreign minister in attendance. The Taliban said they intended to use the site to meet with representatives of other countries and the United Nations, to interact with the news media, “improve relations with countries around the world” and, almost as an afterthought, meet “Afghans if there is a need.” They did not mention the Afghan government. 
 
 Some of the other language the Taliban used closely followed the American framework for peace talks. The insurgents appeared to agree — as they have in the past — to distance themselves from Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups, saying the Taliban’s aims were only within Afghanistan and they did not support the use of Afghan soil to plot international attacks. 
 
 Still, it was the insurgents' presentation of themselves as a government that angered Afghan officials, and they clearly felt they were being sidelined in the peace process. Indeed, Afghan officials had been worried enough that the Taliban might act out that they had demanded, and received, a letter from President Obama guaranteeing that the office would not look like an embassy and confer legitimacy, said Aimal Faizi, the Afghan president’s spokesman. 
 
 Continue reading the main story Video 
 
 The White House would not confirm or deny the existence of the letter. But an administration official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, confirmed that Mr. Obama had sent one offering such assurances. 
 
 Later Wednesday, at the comfortable new villa housing the Taliban office in the West Bay district of Doha, evidence of the American diplomatic scramble could be seen: the white Taliban flag and the Islamic emirate sign had both been taken down. And Qatari police forces were stationed outside. 
 
 But Hashmatallah Moslih, a former adviser to Burhanuddin Rabbani, the Afghan government peace envoy killed in 2011 by a Taliban assassin, said the insurgents had already won an important battle. 
 
 “Through those pictures of the Taliban flag waving in the air and the banner on the office, it took people to see two countries, two flags, two legitimacies,” he said in an interview in Doha. “The damage is already done.” 
 
 As for the Taliban office, he said he expected that it would remain open, and that that had been the aim of the Taliban all along. “One of the reasons they did it was to rehabilitate the Taliban, to make them palatable enough for elections,” he said. 
 
 American officials said the initial discussions with the Taliban that had been planned for Thursday in Doha had been called off. But some American officials had traveled to Qatar, and officials expressed hope that after the scramble on Wednesday, the talks could be resumed soon with the Afghan government delegation taking part as well. 
 
 In describing the Taliban’s initial overture, American officials said it as relatively sudden, signaled by Qatari officials toward the end of May. That timing, too, was surprising: Taliban forces in Afghanistan had been stepping up their attacks as summer neared, bloodying Afghan Army and police forces who have been taking the lead in security operations as American troops stepped back to a support role. 
 
 Almost as a reminder that the Taliban, too, could borrow a page from the “fight and talk” American road map in Afghanistan, insurgents struck within hours of the Doha office opening. Militants tripped a deadly ambush on an American convoy near the Bagram Air Base north of the Afghan capital, killing four American soldiers, Afghan officials said.