Source: Multi-News

Vanessa Hudgens delivered a stand-out performance during Fox's amazing production of Grease: Live! on Sunday, hours after revealing the news that her father had died. 
 
 The 27-year-old High School Musical alum brought the house down with her stunning, sassy performance as Betty Rizzo, which she dedicated to her late father, who died Saturday after a long battle with cancer. 
 
 WATCH: Vanessa Hudgens' Father Greg Dies of Cancer 
 
 
 
 Hudgens, who was part of a star-studded cast that included Julianne Hough, Aaron Tveit, Carly Rae Jepsen, Carlos PenaVega and Keke Palmer, showed off her acting chops yet again by perfectly embodying the spirit of the beloved character. 
 
 FOX 
 
 Additionally, her powerful and captivating performance of "There Are Worse Things I Could Do" set the bar for solo numbers in the entire production. 
 
 Even in the face of personal tragedy, Hudgens' smile, her laugh and her delivery never faltered for even a moment, and she added some extra spark to the already dazzling display. 
 
 
 
 WATCH: Find Out Everything That Is Going Into Making 'Grease: Live' 
 
 
 
 In the final moments of the broadcast, the show honored her father in the credits with a special chyron reading, "In loving memory of Greg Hudgens." 
 
 FOX 
 
 Even in the hours leading up to her father's passing, Hudgens was the epitome of a performance professional. 
 
 ETonline was in the live studio audience during Saturday's Grease: Live! dress rehearsal, and you would never know that Hudgens was dealing with a personal tragedy. In between takes, the former Disney darling stayed in character as the sharp-tongued Rizzo, and she was all smiles even when the cameras weren't rolling. 
 
 WATCH: Celebs Tweet Condolences to Vanessa Hudgens Following Father's Death 
 
 
 
 Hudgens revealed the news of her dad's death on Twitter hours before the show was set to kick off. 
 
 "I am so sad to say that last night my daddy, Greg passed away from stage 4 cancer," she wrote, which was retweeted by her 20-year-old sister, Stella Hudgens. "Thank you to everyone who kept him in your prayers." 
 
 I am so sad to say that last night my daddy, Greg passed away from stage 4 cancer. Thank you to everyone who kept him in your prayers. — Vanessa Hudgens (@VanessaHudgens) January 31, 2016 
 
 For more on Hudgen's late father, who had been battling cancer for months, watch the video below. ||||| CLOSE VANESSA HUDGENS and her boyfriend AUSTIN BUTLER are facing allegations they defaced a rock face in Arizona. , she showed off a photo on social media of a red rock, in which the lovebirds had carved a 
 
 Actress Vanessa Hudgens and her boyfriend, actor Austin Butler, may face fines or jail time after possibly carving their names and a heart into Sedona's precious red rocks. 
 
 A photo Vanessa Hudgens posted of a possible carving into Sedona red rock. (Photo: Twitter) 
 
 Actress Vanessa Hudgens and her boyfriend, actor Austin Butler, are in trouble after she posted a photo on Instagram that appears to show they carved their names into one of Sedona's precious red rocks. 
 
 After posting multiple photos of her romantic Valentine's Day getaway with Butler in Sedona, many with the hashtag #sedonadreams, she posted the incriminating evidence. 
 
 The photo: "Austin + Vanessa" with a heart around it on the red rock. 
 
 The problem: It's illegal to damage Sedona's rocks. 
 
 "Happy Valentine's Day boo boo bears," she wrote as the photo's caption before later removing it. 
 
 ❤️❤️ @austinbutler #sedonadreams A photo posted by Vanessa Hudgens (@vanessahudgens) on Feb 14, 2016 at 1:12pm PST 
 
 The remnants of their tryst in the Red Rock Ranger District of the Coconino National Forest is punishable by a minimum $100 fine and/or three months in jail and a maximum $5,000 fine and/or six months in jail. 
 
 The incident is "currently under investigation," said Brady Smith, a Coconino National Forest spokesman, though he couldn't reveal any other details. 
 
 "It’s a common occurrence in that area that we have a challenge with and we try to education people on," he said. 
 
 #sedonadreams A photo posted by Vanessa Hudgens (@vanessahudgens) on Feb 14, 2016 at 1:11pm PST 
 
 Read or Share this story: http://azc.cc/1XwgXhY