Source: Multi-News

Swiss archaeologists recently announced the discovery of what they say is the earliest metal representation of a human body part ever found in Europe. The 3,500-year-old object is a hand, slightly smaller than life-sized, made of more than a pound of bronze. It has a cuff of gold foil glued to the wrist, and a socket inside that would have allowed it to be mounted on a stick or pole. 
 
 The find was originally uncovered in 2017 near Lake Biel in the western canton (province) of Bern, by treasure hunters using metal detectors, who turned it in to authorities along with a bronze dagger and rib bone they found nearby. “We had never seen anything like it,” says Andrea Schaer, head of the Ancient History and Roman Archeology Department at the Bern Archaeological Service. “We weren’t sure if it was authentic or not – or even what it was.” 
 
 By radiocarbon dating a tiny bit of the organic glue used to attach a layer of gold foil onto the sculpture’s “wrist,” they determined the object was very old – dating back to the middle Bronze Age, or between 1,400 and 1,500 B.C. 
 
 That was enough to convince the archaeologists to return this past spring to the area where the bronze hand was originally found. After the erstwhile looters pointed out where they found the object, Schaer and her team spent seven weeks excavating what turned out to be a badly-damaged grave, located on a plateau above Lake Biel near the tiny village of Prêles. “There’s a magnificent view over the plateau to the Alps,” Schaer says. “It really is an extraordinary place.” 
 
 In the burial, researchers found the bones of a middle-aged man, along with a long bronze pin, a bronze spiral probably worn as a hair tie, and fragments of gold foil matching those that adorn the bronze hand. They also recovered one of the sculpture’s broken fingers in the man’s grave, a good indication that the hand was originally buried with the man. 
 
 Metal objects in Bronze Age burials are rare, and gold is almost never found in Bronze Age burials in Switzerland. As far as Swiss archaeologists familiar with the find can tell, a sculpture like this is unique in Europe, and perhaps beyond. “The fact that we know of thousands of Bronze Age graves and have never found anything like this shows it’s pretty special,” says Stefan Hochuli, head of the Department of Monument Preservation and Archaeology in the nearby Swiss canton of Zug. 
 
 The sculpture will be on display in Biel, Switzerland for the next month. Meanwhile, the archaeologists are working to publish the find -- and puzzling over what the hand might have been for. “It must have been placed on something, but we don’t know what,” Schaer says. The sculpture’s socket suggests it could have adorned a statue, been mounted on a stick and wielded like a scepter, or even worn as a prosthetic as part of a ritual. ||||| Image: Archaeological Service of the Canton of Bern/Philippe Joner 
 
 In October 2017, a pair of treasure-hunting metal detectorists made an extraordinary discovery near a Swiss lake: a sculpted bronze hand with a gold cuff dating back some 3,500 years. Archaeologists have never seen anything quite like it, and are at a loss to explain its purpose or function. And in an unfortunate turn, the hand is now at the center of a criminal investigation. 
 
 
 
 The bronze hand and its thin gold cuff, along with a bronze dagger and a human rib bone, were discovered by the metal detectorists near Lake Biel in the Bernese Jura, about 28 miles (45 km) northwest of Bern, Switzerland, according to a Canton de Bern press release. The items were handed over to specialists at the Ancient History and Roman Archeology Department in the Bern Archaeological Service one day after the discovery. 
 
 Advertisement 
 
 The hand of Prêles, as it’s now called, is slightly smaller than an adult hand and was cast from about a pound of bronze, according to National Geographic. Radiocarbon dating of the organic, vegetable-based glue used to adhere the gold band to the hand’s wrist places the artifact to between 1,400 and 1,500 BC, back during Europe’s Middle Bronze Age. The archaeologists studying the hand, a team led by Andrea Schae, say it’s doubtful the hand was worn; a socket inside the hand suggests it was mounted on a staff of some kind. 
 
 Image: Archaeological Service of the Canton of Bern/Philippe Joner 
 
 Schae’s team returned to the site in the Bernese Jura to conduct further excavations. They discovered that a grave, possibly a tomb, that unfortunately “had suffered significant damage as a result of recent work,” write the researchers in the release. 
 
 Advertisement 
 
 Indeed, there may be something untoward going on here. SwissInfo reports that there are indications that some objects were stolen from the site. A spokesperson for the Canton Archaeological Service of Bern confirmed to Gizmodo that “a criminal investigation is currently underway in this matter,” and that because of this, they “cannot give more detailed information.” 
 
 Image: Archaeological Service of the Canton of Bern/Guy Jaquenod 
 
 Despite this, the researchers managed to uncover more items at the site, including the bones of a middle-aged male, a long bronze pin, a bronze spiral likely worn as a hair ornament, more bits of gold foil (likely from the hand), and one of the sculpture’s missing fingers. The archaeologists say the hand was likely buried with the man, of whom we know virtually nothing. 
 
 
 
 Advertisement 
 
 Beneath the grave, the researchers uncovered a stone-based structure. Apparently, “the man and the bronze hand were deliberately buried over this older construction,” write the researchers in the press release. “He must have been a high-ranking character.” This is an exceptional Swiss Bronze Age burial, one with no precedent. As far as the archaeologists can tell, the bronze hand is unique. 
 
 “To the knowledge of Swiss, German and French specialists, there has never been a comparable sculpture dating from the Bronze Age in Central Europe,” according to the press release. “The hand of Prêles is now the oldest bronze piece representing a part of the human body. It is therefore a unique and remarkable object.” 
 
 A formal research paper to describe the findings is forthcoming, but the researchers are still trying to figure out if the items were manufactured nearby or imported from afar. They’re also struggling to understand the purpose of the sculpted bronze hand. 
 
 Advertisement 
 
 “We do not know either the meaning and the function attributed to it,” the authors write in the press release. “Its gold ornament suggests that it is an emblem of power, a distinctive sign of the social elite, even of a deity. The hand is extended by a hollow form that suggests that it was originally mounted on another object: it was perhaps part of a scepter or a statue.” 
 
 Sadly, this analysis is being complicated by the disturbed condition of the site; the researchers never had an opportunity to observe the grave in situ, that is, in its original, unperturbed state. There’s a lesson here: If you’re a so-called treasure hunter, or a person who’s accidentally stumbled upon something of archaeological significance, stop what you’re doing and call in the experts. Failure to do so means you’re just looting—and destroying history. 
 
 [Archaeological Service of the Canton of Bern via National Geographic] ||||| Deux particuliers ont fait une découverte exceptionnelle dans le Jura bernois début octobre 2017 : ils ont trouvé une main sculptée en bronze portant un bracelet en or près de Prêles, sur le Plateau de Diesse. Il y avait également une lame de poignard en bronze et une côte humaine. Les auteurs de la découverte ont remis ces objets au Service archéologique de Berne dès le lendemain. Les premières recherches ont montré qu’aucun objet analogue n’avait été trouvé à ce jour en Suisse ou dans les pays voisins. 
 
 Une pièce unique remontant à 3500 ans 
 
 La datation au carbone 14 a permis de déterminer que la main en bronze datait de 1500 à 1400 av. J.-C. On a en outre analysé la colle végétale utilisée pour fixer la fine plaque d’or appliquée autour du poignet. La datation indique que la côte humaine est plus jeune d’une centaine d’années. Ces deux dates, situées dans l’Âge du bronze moyen, sont cohérentes avec la lame de poignard. Les premières analyses effectuées sur les métaux utilisés pour fabriquer la main confirment qu’il s’agit d’alliages courants à cette époque. 
 
 Personnage de haut rang 
 
 En fouillant les lieux, l’équipe du Service archéologique a mis au jour une tombe contenant les ossements d’un homme adulte au début de l’été 2018. Elle avait malheureusement subi des dommages importants suite à des travaux récents. La tombe contenait une fibule en bronze, une spirale en bronze (ornement de coiffure) et des restes de plaque d’or provenant vraisemblablement de la main. La présence de l’un des doigts de la main en bronze a confirmé que la sculpture était bien issue de ce site. 
 
 On a découvert sous la tombe une construction en pierres d’origine humaine. Apparemment, l’homme à la main de bronze a été délibérément inhumé au-dessus de cette construction plus ancienne. Il devait s’agir d’un personnage de haut rang. 
 
 Un sceptre ou une statue 
 
 À la connaissance des spécialistes suisses, allemands et français, on n’a jamais trouvé de sculpture comparable datant de l’Âge du bronze en Europe centrale. La main de Prêles est à ce jour la pièce en bronze la plus ancienne figurant une partie du corps humain. C’est donc un objet unique et remarquable. 
 
 Il est encore trop tôt pour déterminer si la main a été fabriquée dans la région des Trois-Lacs ou dans une contrée plus lointaine. On ne connaît pas non plus la signification et la fonction qui lui étaient attribuées. Son ornement en or donne à penser qu’il s’agit d’un emblème de pouvoir, signe distinctif de l’élite sociale voire d’une déité. La main est prolongée par une forme creuse qui suggère qu’elle était à l’origine montée sur un autre objet : elle était peut-être une partie d’un sceptre ou d’une statue.Toutes les questions seront abordées lors de l’étude scientifique qui débutera au cours des prochains mois. 
 
 Exposition temporaire de cette découverte exceptionnelle 
 
 La main de Prêles sera exposée au public du 18 septembre au 14 octobre 2018 au NMB Nouveau Musée Bienne. 
 
 Mediendokumentation