Source: Multi-News

NASA needs volunteers to stay in bed for 15 weeks straight 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 window._taboola = window._taboola || []; _taboola.push({ mode: 'thumbnails-c', container: 'taboola-interstitial-gallery-thumbnails-5', placement: 'Interstitial Gallery Thumbnails 5', target_type: 'mix' }); _taboola.push({flush: true}); 
 
 
 
 window._taboola = window._taboola || []; _taboola.push({ mode: 'thumbnails-c', container: 'taboola-interstitial-gallery-thumbnails-7', placement: 'Interstitial Gallery Thumbnails 7', target_type: 'mix' }); _taboola.push({flush: true}); 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Photo: NASA Image 1 of / 7 Caption Close Image 1 of 7 Test subjects run on a vertical treadmill to simiulate exercise done in a microgravity environment. Test subjects run on a vertical treadmill to simiulate exercise done in a microgravity environment. Photo: NASA Image 2 of 7 Two test subejcts participate in a bed rest research project at a facility in Galveston. Two test subejcts participate in a bed rest research project at a facility in Galveston. Photo: Johnson Space Center Image 3 of 7 Two test subejcts participate in a bed rest research project at a facility in Galveston. Two test subejcts participate in a bed rest research project at a facility in Galveston. Photo: Johnson Space Center Image 4 of 7 Two test subejcts participate in a bed rest research project at a facility in Galveston. Two test subejcts participate in a bed rest research project at a facility in Galveston. Photo: Johnson Space Center Image 5 of 7 Image 6 of 7 Look back at the posters from past NASA missions. Look back at the posters from past NASA missions. Photo: NASA Image 7 of 7 NASA needs volunteers to stay in bed for 15 weeks straight 1 / 7 Back to Gallery 
 
 NASA is offering you the chance to help assist in the future of manned spaceflight, and all you have to do is confine yourself to a hospital bed for three months or so. 
 
 The space agency has an ongoing bed-rest study and they need test subjects. 
 
 Who wouldn't want to lie in bed for a 15 weeks and paid for doing it? But there are plenty of catches, according to researchers Ronita Cromwell and John Neigut with the Flight Analogs Project, based out of the Johnson Space Center. 
 
 This long-term bed rest study calls for participants who are non-smokers in healthy physical condition and who match the makeup of astronauts to help NASA document how the human body reacts to 70 days in a bed rest position. 
 
 "We don't want couch potatoes for this study," says Cromwell. The study, based out of NASA’s Human Test Subject Facility at Galveston's UTMB medical center. 
 
 You must also pass the Modified Air Force Class III Physical, which includes vision and hearing screenings, blood and urine work, an electrocardiogram, screening for drugs and alcohol, and infectious disease testing. Here is the application. 
 
 "It's a little customized for our use," says Neigut. 
 
 Right now, researchers would like people between the ages of 24 and 55 for their study, preferably male. 
 
 Those who are selected should come into the study with something to occupy their free time. 
 
 "We encourage them to come in with a goal," Neigut says. Some people write books or try to learn foreign languages, and some even continue to work if they have Internet-based occupations. Some musicians and artists continue to create while lying in bed too, though they haven't had any rock drummers come around. 
 
 "Each subject is participating in seven research investigations," says Neigut. A UTMB investigator usually works with each subject on another project, too. 
 
 For example, there are testosterone studies and cardiovascular studies also going on that help the general public. The subjects also undergo MRIs while performing simple tasks to see how the brain reacts. 
 
 Sitting up or standing is off limits for participants in the study. Without an anti-gravity chamber, this is the best way to simulate on Earth what going without gravity does to humans in outer space on long-term missions, according to NASA. Subjects must also lie with their feet slightly above their head, so gravity pulls your bodily fluids toward your head. 
 
 You have to exercise six days a week while at UTMB. Cromwell and Neigut characterized the exercises as high-intensity, with strength and cycling training involved, all while laying in a hospital bed. Subjects aren't total sloths. 
 
 You can go outside, but you must stay in that head-down position. Also, you won't be out there long as you cannot overdose on sunlight. They supply that necessary vitamin for you. 
 
 "They experience the same physical changes that astronauts go through on long missions," says Cromwell. 
 
 Still sound like a blast? 
 
 In the past subjects have been called "pillownauts" seeing as their craft is not a billion-dollar capsule but a hospital bed. Blogger Heather Archuletta documented her experience on her own blog a few years back and kept a Flickr account of her stay in Galveston. 
 
 Oh, and there are no conjugal visits, so you will going without -- you know -- for a while. 
 
 "We encourage family and friends to come visit as much as possible," says Neigut. This helps with passing the time, and with morale during the 15-week duration. 
 
 Before subjects enter the study they go through physchological testing to make sure they have the mental tools to be confined for such a period of time. They also tour the grounds to see what is in store, including the bed pans and the roommate situation. 
 
 There is a two-week rehab process for particpants to literally get back on their feet. 
 
 Neigut says in the spring they are looking at conducting shorter studies, maybe around two weeks or a few days, depending on what they need to research. They may also have an isolation chamber study too. 
 
 A few people take a liking to the study and come back for more. Former military do well in study. 
 
 "Some people are really interested in the science return and love helping NASA," says Neigut. "We have numerous repeat requests for people to come back to the study." ||||| Share this article with Google Plus 
 
 Guitar hero: Nasa volunteers will spend 70 days in bed (Picture: NASA) 
 
 Does staying in bed sound like your dream job? 
 
 Nasa is currently recruiting a number of willing volunteers to spend 70 days doing very little at its Houston headquarters. 
 
 The couch potatoes will get paid around £3,000 a month as part of the US space agency’s research into the effects of microgravity on the human body. 
 
 ‘Of all the potential challenges crew members encounter in the space environment, microgravity has proven to be one of the most difficult to mimic in an experimental setting,’ explains Nasa.gov. 
 
 ‘Researchers and engineers are studying bed rest as an experimental analog for space flight because extended exposure to a head-down tilt position can duplicate many of the effects of a low-gravity environment.’ 
 
 Two test subjects participate in the bed rest research project (Picture: Nasa) 
 
 Successful candidates will stay in a tilted bed 24 hours a day as part of the 70-day project, where they can play computer games, surf the internet or watch TV. 
 
 Researchers will then monitor how long-term confinement to a reduced gravity environment effects muscle and bone strength, cardiovascular function and mental health. 
 
 The ‘pillownauts’ will undergo a two-week rehabilitation period once the study is complete. ||||| The seed for this crawl was a list of every host in the Wayback Machine 
 
 This crawl was run at a level 1 (URLs including their embeds, plus the URLs of all outbound links including their embeds) 
 
 The WARC files associated with this crawl are not currently available to the general public.