Source: Multi-News

If you can't make it to SXSW, here's the next best thing: The Texas Nationalist Movement, which is exactly what it sounds like, will be holding a rally tomorrow in front of the state capitiol in Austin to push for a referendum on secession from the United States. 
 
 As with any half-decent declaration of independence, the group's resolution has a list of grievances: Specifically, the federal government has failed the protect its borders, and "implemented thousands of laws, mandates and agencies in violation of the United States Constitution that have invaded the sovereignty of the State of Texas." 
 
 But wait: This story actually gets stranger. As the Houston Press reported, the Texas Nationalist Movement's secession rally is being sponsored by none other than state Rep. Leo Berman. You may remember Berman as the man who introduced a bill to force the President of the United States to prove his citizenship (again), and, when asked for proof, cited YouTube videos he'd seen because, "YouTubes are infallible." He's also sponsoring a bill to save state courts from the scourge of Islamic Sharia law. 
 
 So why is a state legislator promoting a secession rally? The Press caught up with Berman, who explained that while he "very strongly" does not support secession (statehouse rallies need a legislative sponsor), he doesn't think it's such a terrible idea either: 
 
 He says he has "no qualms" about supporting a secession rally. Is there any group out there whose message is so far out, so radical and dangerous that he would refuse to be a legislative sponsor for them? "I'm very, very, very strongly pro-life," he says. "So I would not support an abortion-type rally." 
 
 Man's got to stand for something. 
 
 Support for secession has a long and rich history in the Lone Star State. According to a 2009 poll, 48 percent of Texas Republicans agreed that the state "would be better off as an independent nation." That came after GOP Governor Rick Perry told reporters at a tea party in Austin that if the federal government didn't change its ways, secession might be an option. And in 2009, a Kerr County resident was arrested for claiming to be a sheriff's deputy for the "Republic of Texas." For more, check out our interactive map on US secession movements. 
 
 Also of note: Although the group's poster features a severely mutton-chopped Sam Houston calling for Texas independence, the real Sam Houston famously took an unpopular stand against Texas secession on the eve of the Civil War. As he put it: "The Union is worth more than Mr. Lincoln. I was denounced then. I am denounced now. Be it so!" ||||| AUSTIN — The Texas Nationalist Movement marked Texas Independence Day with a rally on Saturday at the Capitol urging Texans to save the state by seceding from the United States. 
 
 A small but enthusiastic group of Texans gathered on the steps of the Capitol, as an assortment of massive Texas flags blew above them in the chilly afternoon breeze. 
 
 Outrage was spread evenly toward Democrats and Republicans as leaders of the movement expressed their disgust for the growing national debt and the federal government's treatment of Texas. 
 
 "Texas can take better care of itself than Washington," said Lauren Savage, vice president of the movement. "We are here to raise interest in the Legislature of the possibility of secession to cure the ills of America." 
 
 Members are demanding that state lawmakers introduce a bill that would allow Texans to vote on whether to declare independence. 
 
 Fed up with federal mandates, the burden of unsustainable taxes and disregarded votes, members say secession has been a long time coming. 
 
 "This is a cake that's been baking for 85 years," said Cary Wise, membership director of the Texas Nationalist Movement. "All this administration has done is light the candles." 
 
 Demonstrators said they have had enough of state leaders who are conservative in rhetoric but big government proponents in reality, calling out GOP Gov. Rick Perry as one of the biggest frauds. 
 
 "I would love to debate Rick Perry live because we could once and for all show that the guy is a big government fraud who claims to be conservative," said Eric Kirkland, member of the Constitution Party of Texas. 
 
 Among shouts of agreement from the crowd, Kirkland added that he would love for Perry to walk out of the Capitol at that moment to engage in a debate. 
 
 Demonstrators said taxes are weighing down Texans and are ultimately unsustainable. Gerry Donaldson, host of Our Constitution: Foundation and Principles Radio Show, used bricks to demonstrate the burden dozens of taxes place on Texans throughout their lives. 
 
 "Washington is encroaching on us in greater levels day by day," Donaldson said, as he piled bricks one by one into a bucket held by a fellow member. "So, what do we do?" 
 
 Secessionists stressed accountability for a government they say has become corrupted by power and distorted from the framers' original intent. 
 
 Donaldson said he is getting a committee together that will review every bill proposed by state lawmakers and determine if it is constitutional by the people. 
 
 Drawing largely from the Texas Bill of Rights, demonstrators said Texans have the responsibility to take power from the hands of a federal government that has gotten out of control. 
 
 "The only way is to secede and wipe the slate clean," Donaldson said. "We secede, and then we reform this government based on an absolute return back to basic principles."