Source: Multi-News

One of the two shooters who launched a deadly attack on a San Bernardino social services center Wednesday was mistakenly identified in media reports as his brother, a veteran who shares the same name. 
 
 In the hours after the mass shooting Wednesday in Southern California, several media outlets including The Daily Beast, incorrectly identified Syed Raheel Farook as one of two killers responsible for the shooting that left 14 people dead and 21 others injured. 
 
 Farook is a veteran of the United States Navy with several “awards and decorations,” a spokesperson told BuzzFeed News. He enlisted in August 2003 and left the service in August 2007. 
 
 Navy records show he was awarded the National Defense Service Medal, Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, and Sea Service Deployment Ribbon. 
 
 Syed Raheel Farook was an information system technician, third class, serving on the USS Enterprise; in the Surface Warfare Officer School Unit, in Great Lakes, Illinois; and at the Recruit Training Command, in Great Lakes, Illinois. 
 
 He was an enlisted surface warfare specialist and was awarded the Good Conduct Medal, records show. 
 
 His brother, Syed Rizwan Farook, and sister-in-law were killed Wednesday in a shoot-out with police after the mass shooting in San Bernardino. ||||| SAN BERNARDINO, Calif. (AP) — With a young wife, infant daughter and government job, Syed Farook appeared to have arrived at a sweet-spot in life. Friends knew the 28-year-old by his quick smile, his devotion to his Muslim religion and earnest talk about cars he would restore. 
 
 The McIntyre family from Redlands, Calif., hold candles at a vigil at San Manuel Stadium Thursday, Dec. 3, 2015, in remembrance of the 14 people lost Wednesday in the San Bernardino mass shooting. From... (Associated Press) 
 
 Rania Elbanna, 40, left, and Dr. Shaheen Zakaria, friends from Loma Linda, California, hold candles at a vigil at San Manuel Stadium Thursday, Dec. 3, 2015, in remembrance of the 14 people lost Wednesday... (Associated Press) 
 
 A mourner holds a candle during a vigil at San Manuel Stadium, Thursday, Dec. 3, 2015, in San Bernardino, Calif. for multiple victims of a shooting that took place at a holiday banquet on Wednesday. A... (Associated Press) 
 
 People hold candles during a vigil for shooting victims on Thursday, Dec. 3, 2015, at San Manuel Stadium in San Bernardino, Calif. A husband and wife opened fire on a holiday banquet, killing multiple... (Associated Press) 
 
 San Bernardino Police Lt. Mike Madden, who was one one of the first officers on scene, describes his experience during a news conference near the site of a mass shooting on Thursday, Dec. 3, 2015 in San... (Associated Press) 
 
 San Bernardino Police Lt. Mike Madden who was one one of the first officers on scene describes his experience during a press conference near the site of yesterday's mass shooting on Thursday, Dec. 3,... (Associated Press) 
 
 California Gov. Jerry Brown reacts as he speaks near the site of Wednesday's shooting in San Bernardino, Calif., during a news conference on Thursday, Dec. 3, 2015. A husband and wife opened fire on a... (Associated Press) 
 
 This undated photo provided by the California Department of Motor Vehicles shows Syed Rizwan Farook who has been named as the suspect in the San Bernardino, Calif., shootings. Farook communicated with... (Associated Press) 
 
 Jesus Gonzales, center left, who has been separated with his wife since Wednesday's shooting, is comforted by local church members including Jose Gomez, center right, Thursday, Dec. 3, 2015, in San Bernardino,... (Associated Press) 
 
 Two women comfort each other near the scene of a shooting outside a Southern California social services center in San Bernardino, Calif., where one or more gunmen opened fire, shooting multiple people... (Associated Press) 
 
 An officer works at the scene in Redlands, Calif., Wednesday, Dec. 2, 2015, as officials executed a search warrant following a shooting that killed multiple people at a social services center for the... (Associated Press) 
 
 Muslim Community Prayer Vigil for San Bernadino shooting victims, in Chino, Calif., Thursday, Dec. 3, 2015. A husband and wife opened fire on a holiday banquet, killing multiple people on Wednesday. Hours... (Associated Press) 
 
 This photo provided by the San Bernardino County Sheriff's Department shows weapons carried by suspects at the scene of a shootout in San Bernardino, Calif. Multiple attackers opened fire on a banquet... (Associated Press) 
 
 Michelle Zamora , left, is comforted by her sister, Melissa Zamora, of San Bernardino, at a vigil at San Manuel Stadium Thursday, Dec. 3, 2015, in remembrance of the 14 people lost Wednesday in the San... (Associated Press) 
 
 This photo provided by the San Bernardino County Sheriff's Department shows ammunition and weapons carried by suspects at a shootout in San Bernardino, Calif. Multiple attackers opened fire on a banquet... (Associated Press) 
 
 A group of local church members pray for residents who live in the neighborhood where Wednesday's police shootout with suspects took place, Thursday, Dec. 3, 2015, in San Bernardino, Calif. Multiple attackers... (Associated Press) 
 
 People hold candles during a vigil for shooting victims on Thursday, Dec. 3, 2015, at San Manuel Stadium in San Bernardino, Calif. A husband and wife opened fire on a holiday banquet, killing multiple... (Associated Press) 
 
 Muslim Community Prayer Vigil for San Bernadino shooting victims, in Chino, Calif., Thursday, Dec. 3, 2015. A husband and wife opened fire on a holiday banquet, killing multiple people on Wednesday. Hours... (Associated Press) 
 
 An FBI crime scene truck remains on scene at the Inland Regional Center in San Bernardino Calif. on Thursday, Dec. 3, 2015, after a mass shooting at the location on Wednesday. A heavily armed husband... (Associated Press) 
 
 They didn't know the man authorities say was busy with his wife, Tashfeen Malik, building homemade bombs and stockpiling thousands of rounds of ammunition for a commando-style assault on a holiday party of his co-workers that killed 14 and injured 21. 
 
 "This was a person who was successful, who had a good job, a good income, a wife and a family. What was he missing in his life?" asked Nizaam Ali, who worshipped with Farook at a mosque in San Bernardino — the city east of Los Angeles where Farook killed and died. 
 
 As authorities identified the deceased and details about Farook's life began to take shape, the question of what motivated the slaughter remained unanswered. 
 
 The FBI was investigating the shootings as a potential act of terrorism but reached no firm conclusions Thursday, said a U.S. official briefed on the probe. Separately, a U.S. intelligence official said Farook had been in contact with known Islamic extremists on social media. Both officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the investigation publicly. 
 
 At the same time, law enforcement officials from local police to Attorney General Loretta Lynch cautioned it could have been work-related rage. Or a twisted hybrid of religion and personal vendetta. 
 
 Farook had no criminal record and was not under scrutiny by local or federal law enforcement before the attacks. 
 
 Police said the couple had more than 1,600 bullets when they were killed by authorities hours after Wednesday's attack, and that the shooters had at home 12 pipe bombs, tools to make more explosives, and more than 3,000 rounds of ammunition. 
 
 Police Lt. Mike Madden, one of the first officers to reach the room at the social services center, where Farook's colleagues from San Bernardino County's public health department had gathered, said the carnage was "unspeakable," the scene overwhelming: the smell of gunpowder, the wails of the injured, the blood, fire sprinklers pumping and fire alarms blaring. All in a room with a Christmas tree and decorations on every table. 
 
 The dead ranged in age from 26 to 60. Among the 21 injured were two police officers hurt during the manhunt, authorities said. Two of the wounded remained in critical condition Thursday. 
 
 Nearly all the dead and wounded were county employees. 
 
 Syed Rizwan Farook was born in Chicago on June 14, 1987, to parents born in Pakistan. He was raised in Southern California. 
 
 In July 2010, he was hired as a seasonal public employee and served until December of that year, according to a work history supplied by the county. In January 2012, he was rehired as a trainee environmental health specialist before being promoted two years later. Among his job duties was inspecting restaurants. 
 
 The soft-spoken Farook was known to pray every day at San Bernardino's Dar Al Uloom Al Islamiyah mosque. That is where Nizaam Ali and his brother Rahemaan Ali met Farook. 
 
 The last time Rahemaan Ali saw his friend was three weeks ago, when Farook abruptly stopped coming to pray. Rahemaan Ali said Farook seemed happy and his usual self. Both brothers said they never saw anything to make them think Farook was violent. 
 
 They remember when Farook announced that he would be getting married, saying he had met his future wife online and that she was Pakistani. Farook told the brothers that he traveled to Mecca in Saudi Arabia last summer. 
 
 They said he was gone about a month before returning to the U.S. with his wife. Malik arrived on a K-1 visa for fiancées and with a Pakistani passport in July 2014, authorities said. 
 
 The two were married on Aug. 16, 2014, in nearby Riverside County, according to their marriage license. Both listed their religion as Muslim. The couple had a 6-month-old daughter who they dropped with relatives Wednesday morning before the shooting. 
 
 Patrick Baccari, who sat at the same table as Farook at the employee party, recalled he was short on words and inclined to talk about cars, not religion. 
 
 However, a friend of a man killed in the rampage said Farook had a heated conversation about Islam two weeks before the attack. 
 
 Kuuleme Stephens said she happened to call Nicholas Thalasinos while her friend was talking with Farook at work. She said Thalasinos, a Messianic Jew who was passionately pro-Israel, told her Farook "doesn't agree that Islam is not a peaceful religion." Stephens said Farook replied that Americans don't understand Islam. 
 
 Stephens added that Thalasinos did not think their conversations would turn violent. 
 
 Farook legally bought two handguns used in the massacre and their two assault rifles were legally bought by someone else federal authorities wanted to question. That person's identity was not released. 
 
 A profile on a matchmaking website for South Asians that matched Farook's name, California hometown, county health job and Muslim faith said his interests included target shooting in his backyard. Though the date of the posting was not clear, it listed his age as 22. 
 
 Details about Farook's upbringing are sparse. 
 
 He grew up in a turbulent home but later graduated from California State University, San Bernardino, with a degree in environmental health sciences in 2010. 
 
 Divorce records depicted a home divided by abuse. Farook's mother alleged in 2006 that her husband, also named Syed, attacked her while her children were present, dropped a TV on her and pushed her toward a car, according to records. 
 
 Rafia Sultana Farook filed a petition for a domestic violence order of protection on July 3, 2006, against her husband. She said she was forced to move out with three of her children because her husband continually harassed her "verbally and physically," according to the divorce records. 
 
 The Associated Press could not immediately reach the father for comment and was unable to corroborate the allegations in the records. No one answered the door at a home in Corona where a neighbor said the father lived. 
 
 ___ 
 
 Blood reported from Los Angeles and Tucker from Washington. Contributing to this report were AP writers Ken Dilanian in Washington; Gillian Flaccus, Christine Armario and Justin Pritchard in Los Angeles; Holbrook Mohr in Jackson, Mississippi; Garance Burke in San Francisco; and Jason Keyser in Chicago. ||||| Syed Rizwan Farook and his wife were killed in a shooting with cops. An investigator looks at a Black SUV that was involved in the shootout. (Jae C. Hong/AP) ||||| Farook was born in Illinois, and had worked at the Health Department as an inspector for five years. Malik was born in Pakistan, according to a federal law enforcement source. 
 
 
 
 Farook traveled to Saudi Arabia in 2013 during the Hajj pilgrimage to Mecca and also visited Saudi Arabia in July 2014 for nine days to pick up Malik and bring her to the United States on a K-1 fiance visa. Neither trip lasted very long, the official said. The official has seen no record of Farook traveling to Pakistan, as the assistant director for the FBI's Los Angeles field office said in a news conference Thursday.