Source: Multi-News

The U.S. Secret Service plans to raise the height of the White House security fence by 5 feet and add a new concrete foundation to reduce the risk of fence-jumpers, according to a copy of an agency report obtained by the News4 I-Team. (Published Wednesday, April 27, 2016) 
 
 The U.S. Secret Service plans to raise the height of the White House security fence by 5 feet and add a new concrete foundation to reduce the risk of fence-jumpers, according to a copy of an agency report obtained by the News4 I-Team. 
 
 The agency, along with the National Park Service, said it intends to begin building a “taller, stronger” fence to protect the White House grounds by 2018. 
 
 Details of the plan were included in an audio recording of a briefing made by federal officials, which was released to the I-Team Wednesday. The same briefing is expected to be presented May 5 at a meeting of the National Capital Planning Commission, which must first approve any changes to White House fencing. 
 
 “The current fence simply is not adequate for a modern era. We’ve said that before. It is becoming more and more acutely clear that that is in fact the case,” Secret Service official Tom Dougherty said in the briefing to federal officials. 
 
 “(The fence) is entirely scale-able, depending upon the circumstances. And we have now a society that tends to want to jump over the fence and onto the 18 acres,” Daugherty said in the briefing. 
 
 According to the Secret Service briefing, the agency’s plans would raise the current 6-foot-tall fence to 11 feet. A new concrete “footing” and “foundation” for the fence are also planned. 
 
 Secret Service and National Park Service plans for the new fence would also include “anti-climb features” to deter fence jumpers. Small spikes, which officials call “pencil points,” were added to the current fence in 2015 after a series of jumpers leapt the fence on to White House grounds. 
 
 The plans for the new White House fence would include 1¾-inch pickets and taller gates near entrances to the grounds. 
 
 U.S. House and Senate leaders were briefed by the Secret Service on the possible fence changes in mid-April, News4 learned. 
 
 The National Park Service is also participating in the planning for the fence changes. 
 
 “There are still several additional steps before construction could begin on a new fence, and a timeline is not concrete,” the agency said in a statement. ||||| Story highlights The new design features a fence that is 11 feet and seven inches tall 
 
 The statement did not say how much the new fence would cost 
 
 Washington (CNN) The U.S. Secret Service is proposing a "taller and stronger" White House fence following an increasing number of people attempting to breach the security encircling the executive mansion. 
 
 The proposed new design of the fence incorporates "anti-climb features" and "intrusion detection technology," a Secret Service spokeswoman said in a statement. The new design features a fence that is 11 feet and seven inches tall. 
 
 The statement did not say how much the new fence would cost. 
 
 The Secret Service is awaiting the approval of the National Planning Commission for moving ahead with the proposal, and said their goal is for the project to be green-lit by 2018. ||||| Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump Donald John TrumpStone: 'I’ve never had any discussion' with Trump about a pardon White House: Trump will move forward on wall 'with or without' Dems Pelosi after Stone indictment: 'What does Putin have on the president'? MORE on Thursday seized upon news that the White House would be raising the height of its fence, to promote his plan to build a wall along the southern border. 
 
 “President Obama understands that you build strong, tall, beautiful walls to keep people out who don't belong,” he wrote in a Facebook post, sharing an NBC Washington article on the Secret Service’s plans. “People who get permission can enter the White House LEGALLY!” 
 
 ADVERTISEMENT 
 
 The move by the Secret Service is in response to a series of fence-jumpings in the past year. One man who was carrying a knife made it inside the building before being stopped by officers. 
 
 Trump’s signature policy proposal is to build a wall along the southern border to keep out illegal immigrants. ||||| ... 
 
 fit of our whole beautiful, wonderful Nation. Many disagree, but I really feel that working with Democrats and Republicans, we can make a truly GREAT and SECURE deal happen for everyone. 
 
 This is an opportunity for all parties to work together for the bene