Source: Multi-News

Marine Corps Commandant Gen. Robert Neller answered tough questions from U.S. senators on both sides of the aisle today about the growing scandal of explicit photos being shared on the Marines United Facebook page and other websites. 
 
 He called the actions of Marines engaged in cyberbullying female members of the corps "truly disturbing and unacceptable." 
 
 Speaking before the Senate Armed Services Committee with acting Secretary of the Navy Sean Stackley and Sergeant Major of the Marine Corps Ronald Green, Neller said the Naval Criminal Investigative Service is investigating the allegations and will hold accountable any service members involved. 
 
 But some senators were not satisfied with the military leadership's response. 
 
 "When you say to us, 'It's got to be different,' that rings hollow," said Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y. "I don't know what you mean when you say that. Why does it have to be different because you all of a sudden feel that is has to be different? Who has been held accountable?" 
 
 .@SenGillibrand: It's "a serious problem when we have members of our military denigrating female Marines...with no response from leadership" pic.twitter.com/6kuEF3M5Pp — ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) March 14, 2017 
 
 She pressed Neller on how commanders would be held responsible as well. 
 
 "It is a serious problem when we have members of our military denigrating female Marines who will give their life to this country in the way they have, with no response from leadership," Gillibrand said. 
 
 "So if you're dedicated to fixing the culture of the Marines and all the services, what do you plan to do to hold commanders responsible who fail to get this done?" she added. 
 
 Neller has acknowledged that the sharing of explicit photos online is linked to a broader cultural problem that must be addressed. 
 
 "I'm responsible," he said in reply to Gillibrand. "I'm the commandant. I own this, and we are going to have to, you know, you've heard it before, but we're going to have to change how we see ourselves and how we do — how we treat each other. That's a lame answer, but ma'am, that's the best I can tell you right now. We've got to change, and that's on me." 
 
 On Friday, Neller made an impassioned request to women who may have been victims of the military's nude photo sharing scandal to step forward so that those responsible could be held accountable. On Friday he said "less than 10" female victims have been identified. 
 
 Today he told the committee that a "small number" of victims have come forward, and he repeated that others need to speak out about online harassment they received. Stackley said a tip line set up for service members to share information with leadership received 53 calls as of Monday. 
 
 It's estimated that 30,000 people had access to the Marines United Facebook page, a private Facebook group established several years ago as a support network to help fellow Marine veterans dealing with combat-related post-traumatic stress disorder, Neller said. A link posted on the site led to another internet storage site, where some members of the group posted explicit photos of female Marines; the link and separate site have since been removed by the internet service provider, he said. 
 
 Neller and Stackley said that about 500 Marines United members accessed the link to the explicit photos. The two men added that did not have a breakdown of active duty military personnel, veterans and civilians who were involved in that site. Stackley said anonymity can make it difficult to identify individuals online. 
 
 The other military services are also looking into reports that photos of female members from all the branches were posted on additional websites. 
 
 The Marine Corps has the lowest percentage of female members among the five military services, with women making up about 7 to 8 percent of Marines, and it has focused recruiting efforts on increasing the number of women in uniform. 
 
 Neller addressed the relationship between some male and female Marines in today's hearing. 
 
 "The female Marines are a small group in our Corps," he said. "And for whatever reason, there are still some number — and I don't think it's separate from the sexual assault issue, but this issue of denigration of women, objectification of women, misogyny, however you want articulate it, or just bad behavior is tied to the way that some ... male Marines look at women in the Marine Corps." 
 
 J. Scott Applewhite/AP Photo 
 
 In his opening statement, Neller asked female Marines past and present to trust that the issue will be addressed. 
 
 "I know I'm asking a lot of you right now, but I ask you trust the leadership of the Marine Corps to take action and correct this problem. I ask you to trust me personally as your commandant and when I say I'm outraged that many of you haven't been given the same respect when you earn the title Marine," he said. 
 
 Neller listed several examples of female Marines who were recently killed in the line of duty, asking male Marines, "How much more do the females of our Corps have to do to be accepted?" 
 
 "We have to commit to get rid of this perversion to our culture. Enough is enough," he said, adding that he believes this scandal is "not indicative of the great majority of Marines." 
 
 Gen. Neller: "I don't believe—I may be wrong, pray to God I'm not—but I don't believe this is indicative of the great majority of Marines" pic.twitter.com/GbDIGnfiS4 — ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) March 14, 2017 
 
 Active-duty service members who take and share explicit photos of others without their consent can be punished under varying articles in the Uniform Code of Military Justice. 
 
 Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., suggested active-duty Marines should be dishonorably discharged to send a "signal" to deter others from similar behavior. 
 
 Sen. Thom Tillis, R-N.C., suggested that veterans convicted of these actions could lose their military benefits. "We need to make it a very frightening proposition for people, going forward, to be captured in this sort of activity," he said. 
 
 ABC News' Luis Martinez and Sekar Krisnauli contributed to this report. ||||| The Navy is now knee-deep in the nude online photo-sharing scandal that started with the Marine Corps last week and senior admirals are acting quickly to crack down on a problem that is starting to look like a cyber variation of the Navy's notorious 1991 Tailhook debacle. 
 
 
 
 Evidence has emerged that female sailors stationed across the globe are being targeted by anonymous online voyeurs seeking, collecting and distributing naked photos that are typically shared confidentially between couples involved in long-distance relationships. 
 
 
 
 Women from more than a dozen Navy commands were specifically targeted by online users seeking nude photos — likely other sailors or people closely familiar with their command personnel — according to a Navy Times investigation. 
 
 
 
 A review of message boards such as AnonIB, a site first reported on by Business Insider, as well as 4Chan and Tumblr, reveals a network where users seeking nude photos target specific service members, often with innocuous Facebook and Instagram photos asking for "wins," a code for naked pictures. The threads are often subdivided by command. Users will seek specific sailors, often identified by picture, job title, rank and even name, and in many cases nude photos are subsequently posted. 
 
 
 
 The sites — along with the sailors, veterans and civilians who operate them — make up a shadowy web of file sharing that has proven to be a game of whack-a-mole for investigators. As soon as one cache of nude photos is discovered, users migrate using obscure message boards, updating one another as to which new dark corner of the Internet contains the photos. 
 
 
 
 The female sailors being targeted on the publicly accessible sites come from all corners of the Navy, with their commands including the carriers Eisenhower, Truman, Roosevelt and Reagan; the destroyer Cole; Naval Base San Diego, Naval Station Norfolk, Naval Air Stations Oceana, North Island and Pensacola; the hospital ship Mercy, Walter Reed Medical Center; and the U.S. Naval Academy. 
 
 
 
 The staggering list of command locations was compiled during a two-day Navy Times investigation, but is likely not comprehensive. 
 
 
 
 After Navy Times shared the findings with the Navy, the Navy's top officer issued a blistering memo to all his commanders insisting that the behavior be stamped out in the fleet. 
 
 
 
 "Team, we have a problem and we need to solve it," wrote Adm. John Richardson, chief of naval operations. "Really solve it — not put a band-aid on it, not whitewash over it, not look the other way. 
 
 
 
 "The discovery of on-line sites that degrade the female members of our team has shined a light on the fact that this problem persists. But we get reminders of it every day, when we disrespect women by crude jokes, wisecracks, sexual harassment, and in its worst manifestation, sexual assault — a serious violent crime. Despite a steady effort to get after this, we're not making progress." 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Navy has to act as a team to defeat its adversaries, Richardson said, but the behavior sets the whole fleet back. Richardson dismissed suggestions that the behavior was only a small fraction of the population and said sailors who don’t respect their shipmates need to leave. 
 
 "I’ve heard hundreds of times that 'these actions are being taken by only a small minority.'" Richardson wrote. "Prove that. If that’s true, then the vast majority of men and women need to stand up and smother this behavior. To become intolerant. To 
 
 act 
 
 to put a stop to this. And if you’re one of that minority that just won’t get it, then it’s time for you to leave the Navy." 
 
 It is the responsibility of commanding officers, division officers and the chief’s mess to confront the issue with sailors head on, Richardson continued. 
 
 "Make it clear that individuals who can't live up to our professional standards in competence and character are not welcome in our Navy. Make it clear that our standards call us to a higher commitment than the law — we are better than that. And finally, I expect you to make it crystal clear that to remain the world's most powerful Navy we must be 100 percent focused on staying ahead of our competition, which starts with leadership and teamwork … Own this problem. Solve it. There is no room in our Navy for toxic behavior." 
 
 Cyber Tailhook 
 
 The scandal that is engulfing the military began last weekend when a story published on the website The War Horse — then published March 4 via Reveal— exposed a private Facebook group called Marines United, which was used regularly to swap explicit photos of fellow Marines. There were approximately 30,000 members in the group, which the service is working with Facebook and Google to shut down. 
 
 The revelations sparked outrage among lawmakers from both sides of the aisle and from military leaders alike, though public exposure has been limited in part to avoid unlawfully influencing the ongoing investigation by the Naval Criminal Investigative Service. The other two branches have also launched probes. 
 
 In testimony before Congress Tuesday, Neller said roughly 500 members of the Marines United group accessed a share drive online containing a cache of nude photos. To this point, 53 calls from alleged victims have come in to a tip line set up by the NCIS, according to acting Navy Secretary Sean Stackley. 
 
 Investigators are challenged by the rapidly-evolving nature of the groups — shut one down, another pops up somewhere else. Further complicating the matter is that message boards such as AnonIB are, as the name suggests, anonymous, making it difficult to figure out who is posting. Going after user data is a costly court procedure that presupposes you can figure out who runs the site in the first place. 
 
 The burgeoning controversy is drawing comparisons to the Navy’s infamous Tailhook scandal, where dozens of women and some men reported sexual assaults while attending a conference at the Las Vegas Hilton in 1991. That scandal rocked the Navy's traditional culture and set the stage for a force-wide crackdown on sexual assault and sexual harassment. 
 
 Yet the comparison falls short in one important way: unlike sexual assault, posting a nude photo, even without permission, isn’t always a crime. 
 
 That’s an issue that Rep. Jackie Spier, D-Calif., told Military Times was "a gaping hole in regard to revenge porn." 
 
 Speier, who has pushed legislation for federal penalties against sharing nude photos without consent, will introduce a new measure early next week to amend the UCMJ to specifically outlaw the practice in the military as well. 
 
 "It’s a violation of privacy; it’s despicable behavior," she said. "I think this shows a rotten culture in the military, and I’m not going to allow it to continue." 
 
 Timothy Parlatore, a New York criminal defense attorney and former surface warfare officer who works with sailors pro bono, said that Article 134, which covers actions prejudicial to good order and discipline and that bring discredit to the service, would likely be the net that the services use to punish active-duty personnel who shared photos or made aggressive or harassing comments on the site. 
 
 "Article 134 is very broad and the actions could be seen as prejudicial to good order and discipline," he said. "Certainly its service discrediting, no question about that."