Source: Multi-News

HONOLULU (AP) — A 16-year-old boy stowed away in the wheel well of a flight from California to Hawaii on Sunday, surviving the trip halfway across the Pacific Ocean unharmed despite frigid temperatures at 38,000 feet and a lack of oxygen, FBI and airline officials said. 
 
 File- This July 2, 2004, file photo shows a traveler walking from one terminal to another at San Jose Airport in San Jose, Calif. FBI officials say a 16-year-old boy stowed away in the wheel well of a... (Associated Press) 
 
 FBI spokesman Tom Simon in Honolulu told The Associated Press on Sunday night that the boy was questioned by the FBI after being discovered on the tarmac at the Maui airport with no identification. 
 
 "Kid's lucky to be alive," Simon said. 
 
 Simon said security footage from the San Jose airport verified that the boy from Santa Clara, Calif., hopped a fence to get to Hawaiian Airlines Flight 45 on Sunday morning. The child had run away from his family after an argument, Simon said. Simon said when the flight landed in Maui, the boy hopped down from the wheel well and started wandering around the airport grounds. 
 
 "He was unconscious for the lion's share of the flight," Simon said. The flight lasted about 5½ hours. 
 
 Hawaiian Airlines spokeswoman Alison Croyle said airline personnel noticed the boy on the ramp after the flight arrived and immediately notified airport security. 
 
 "Our primary concern now is for the well-being of the boy, who is exceptionally lucky to have survived," Croyle said. 
 
 Simon said the boy was medically screened and found to be unharmed. 
 
 "Doesn't even remember the flight," Simon said. "It's amazing he survived that." 
 
 His misadventure immediately raised security questions. A Congressman who serves on the Homeland Security committee wondered how the teen could have snuck onto the airfield at San Jose unnoticed. 
 
 "I have long been concerned about security at our airport perimeters. #Stowaway teen demonstrates vulnerabilities that need to be addressed," tweeted Rep. Eric Swalwell, a Democrat who represents the San Francisco Bay Area's eastern cities and suburbs. 
 
 A Mineta San Jose International Airport spokeswoman said airport police were working with the FBI and the Transportation Security Agency to review security at the facility as part of an investigation. 
 
 "Our concern is with this young boy and his family. Thank God he survived and we hope his health is OK," spokeswoman Rosemary Barnes said. 
 
 Officials at Kahului Airport referred questions to the State Department of Transportation, which did not return a phone call seeking comment. A Transportation Security Agency spokesman who declined to be named referred questions to the FBI and airport authorities. 
 
 The boy was released to child protective services and not charged with a crime, Simon said. 
 
 In August, a 13- or 14-year-old boy in Nigeria survived a 35-minute trip in the wheel well of a domestic flight after stowing away. Authorities credited the flight's short duration and altitude of about 25,000. Others stowing away in wheel wells have died, including a 16-year-old killed after stowing away aboard a flight from Charlotte, N.C., to Boston in 2010 and a man who fell onto a suburban London street as a flight from Angola began its descent in 2012. 
 
 ___ 
 
 Associated Press writer Daisy Nguyen contributed to this report from Los Angeles. Oskar Garcia can be reached on Twitter at http://twitter.com/oskargarcia ||||| Police are investigating whether a man found dead on a west London street was a stowaway who fell from a plane. Just how often does this happen? 
 
 No-one saw the body fall from the sky on to Portman Avenue. 
 
 A few neighbours thought they heard something, a thud or a loud bang. But not a soul was around to witness a man hit the pavement of this quiet residential street in Mortlake, south-west London, early on a bright September Sunday. 
 
 Police say the death is being treated as unexplained. But early media reports all shared the same assumption - that he had stowed away in the landing gear of a plane flying to Heathrow, less than 10 miles away. 
 
 "He must have come down pretty much vertically to miss the parked cars," says John Taylor, 79, who heard a thump from his home across the street in this placid, affluent suburb. "I expect he was dead already. Poor chap must have been desperate." 
 
 Image caption Flowers mark the spot where a body was found in Mortlake 
 
 It is not the first incident of this kind on the Heathrow flightpath. 
 
 In 2001, the body of Mohammed Ayaz, a 21-year-old Pakistani, was found in the car park of a branch of Homebase in nearby Richmond. Four years prior to that, another hidden passenger fell from the undercarriage of a plane on to a gasworks close to the store. 
 
 Others turned up at Heathrow itself. On 24 August, just 16 days before the discovery on Portman Ave, the remains of another man were found in the landing gear bay of a Boeing 747 after it touched down from a 6,000-mile flight from Cape Town. The bodies of two boys, thought to be as young as 12, were discovered in the undercarriage of a Ghana Airways flight from Accra in 2002. 
 
 Dr Stephen Veronneau, of the US Federal Aviation Administration, has identified 96 individuals around the world who have tried to travel in plane wheel wells since 1947. The incidents happened on 85 flights. Veronneau is working on the assumption that the Mortlake fatality was a stowaway. 
 
 Of these, more than three-quarters have proved fatal. 
 
 It isn't difficult to see why. The undercarriage compartment of a plane is equipped with neither heating, oxygen nor pressure, all of which are crucial for survival as the altitude rises. 
 
 At 18,000ft (5,490m), experts say, hypoxia will set in, causing weakness, tremors, light-headedness and visual impairment. By 22,000ft (6,710m) the stowaway will struggle to maintain consciousness as their blood oxygen level drops. Above 33,000ft (10,065m) the lungs require artificial pressure to function normally. 
 
 Health risks include... Being crushed when landing gear retracts 
 
 Falling when compartment doors reopen 
 
 Hypothermia 
 
 Frostbite 
 
 Hearing loss 
 
 Tinnitus 
 
 Hypoxia (whole or part of body deprived of adequate oxygen supply) 
 
 Acidosis - build-up of acid in body fluids which can cause coma or death 
 
 At the same time, hypothermia is likely to be brought on, with temperatures dropping as low as -63C (-81F). 
 
 Those stowaways whose bodies are not mangled by the retracting landing gear or killed by these extreme conditions will almost certainly be unconscious by the time the compartment doors re-open a few thousand feet above ground, causing them to plunge to their deaths. 
 
 "They either get crushed or frozen to death," says aviation expert David Learmount, of Flight International magazine. 
 
 "There's a huge degree of ignorance. If anyone knew what they were letting themselves in for they wouldn't do it." 
 
 Some stowaways have survived. They tend to have travelled fairly short distances, but all rely more on luck than judgement. 
 
 In 2010 a 20-year-old Romanian survived a flight from Vienna to Heathrow stowed in the undercarriage, but only because the private jet flew below 25,000ft due to bad weather. 
 
 In 2000 Fidel Maruhi Tahiti survived the 4,000-mile journey from Tahiti to Los Angeles and, two years later, Victor Alvarez Molina made it from Cuba to Canada alive. But all suffered severe hypothermia. 
 
 With such a low survival rate, the obvious question is why anyone would embark on such a high-risk journey. 
 
 A handful of stowaways appear to have done so as a prank or out of a misguided sense of adventure. In 2010, the body of 16-year-old American Delvonte Tisdale was found on the flight path to Boston's Logan airport after he apparently hid in the wheel well of a US Airways Boeing 737 from Charlotte, North Carolina. 
 
 But such cases are exceptional. The overwhelming majority of cases involve individuals from developing countries attempting to make their way to Europe or North America. 
 
 They are also almost exclusively male - despite International Labour Organisation figures suggesting women made up 49.6% of all migrants worldwide in 2005. 
 
 Dangerous journey Since records began in 1947, 96 wheel well stowaways are thought to have attempted to board 85 flights 
 
 are thought to have attempted to board 85 flights 73 of those stowaways died and 23 survived 
 
 Two fatal cases in 2012 to date 
 
 First on August flight from Cape Town to Heathrow 
 
 And a September flight thought to have been from an African airport to Heathrow - suspected stowaway's body found in Mortlake, south-west London 
 
 Youngest recorded survivor aged nine 
 
 One person is known to have survived cruising altitude of 39,000ft Source: FAA Civil Aerospace Medical Institute 
 
 Whether motivated by a desire to escape persecution or seek economic prosperity in the West, this method of transit represents the ultimate desperation. 
 
 "We don't know the circumstances of these particular people, but we know from our work with refugees that people are often forced to take extreme measures in order to flee their countries," says Deborah Harris, chief operating officer at the Refugee Council. 
 
 "In conflict situations, people often have to leave their homes at very short notice, and may have no access to money or belongings so are forced to take desperate measures to escape." 
 
 And yet it's hard to imagine even the most afflicted migrant would undertake a journey that was almost certain to lead to their death. It's easy to assume that ignorance of the sheer level of risk is what leads the stowaways to press ahead. 
 
 In the West, a public information campaign would be an obvious response to the stowaway deaths. But as the cases tend to originate from developing countries, it's hard to imagine where a concerned organisation might start. 
 
 As a result, these individuals represent a huge challenge for the authorities. 
 
 According to Norman Shanks, former head of group security at BAA, the threat to anyone other than the stowaway themselves - passengers, flight crews, people on the ground - is minimal. 
 
 But actually preventing someone slipping into the undercarriage depends on checks and procedures that are not always present, Shanks warns. 
 
 "In a lot of places around the world, the control of movement and airside control areas is not the same as what we have here." 
 
 "It's much easier in some locations to access the airside areas than it is in the UK. The only way it could be prevented is if the rest of the world tightened their procedures." 
 
 As for the man who fell to earth on Portman Avenue, police are still awaiting the results of his post-mortem. 
 
 Scotland Yard has so far been unable to identify him. But Angolan currency found with his remains offers a clue as to his origins. 
 
 A makeshift floral tribute has been left at the spot where he was found. Every few minutes, another incoming flight passes overhead.