Source: Multi-News

We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? 
 
 Yes ||||| Replying to @CityofOwensboro Thank you Mayor. We loved that man from Owensboro, and grieve for his family. I miss his smile and can't wait to ride there and honor him. ||||| Nicky Hayden won the 2006 Moto GP championship in Valencia 
 
 Former MotoGP champion Nicky Hayden has died aged 35, five days after being involved in a crash while cycling. 
 
 The American suffered "serious cerebral damage" after colliding with a car on the Rimini coastline in Italy on Wednesday, 17 May. 
 
 The 2006 MotoGP championship winner had been in the intensive care unit of Cesena's Maurizio Bufalini Hospital. 
 
 "We would like everyone to remember Nicky at his happiest - riding a motorcycle," his brother Tommy said. 
 
 A hospital statement issued on Thursday said Hayden had suffered "a serious polytrauma", which is a medical term to describe the condition of a person who has multiple traumatic injuries. 
 
 Hayden, who was nicknamed the Kentucky Kid, had competed for Red Bull Honda in the World Superbike Championship in Italy on 14 May. 
 
 Older brother Tommy, who was also a motorcycle racer, said the family had many "great and happy memories" of Hayden. 
 
 "He dreamed as a kid of being a pro-rider and not only achieved that but also managed to reach the pinnacle of his chosen sport," he said. 
 
 "We are all so proud of that. We will all miss him terribly." 
 
 Sister Kathleen added: "Today I not only lost my big brother, but I lost a best friend." 
 
 Red Bull Honda World Superbike said that the racing world had said goodbye to "one of its dearest sons." 
 
 "The 'Kentucky Kid' will be sorely missed by all that ever had the pleasure of meeting him or the privilege to see him race a motorcycle around a track, be it dirt or asphalt," a statement read. 
 
 Hayden's title triumph 
 
 The Kentucky-born racer first competed in MotoGP in 2003 and finished third in the standings two years later. He ended Valentino Rossi's five-year winning streak in 2006 following a dramatic final race in Valencia. 
 
 Hayden had been eight points adrift of Rossi heading into the decider, but saw the Italian slide out on lap five and eventually finish in 13th place. Hayden's third-place finish allowed him to take the title by five points. 
 
 He remains the last American to win the premier class of motorcycle road racing. 
 
 At the time, BBC commentator Steve Parrish described the season as "the most entertaining I have ever seen". 
 
 'A champion and a gentleman' 
 
 This content will not work on your device, please check Javascript and cookies are enabled or update your browser 
 
 'His family were such a huge part of who he was' 
 
 BBC's Azi Farni 
 
 Nicky was a real gentleman. He came from a wonderful family, a big racing family. His two brothers raced, his two sisters raced when they were younger, his father raced. 
 
 This was a dirt track family. They come from Kentucky and had a race track at their house. Racing was something that they all did together. 
 
 His family were such a huge part of who he was. If you look at his Twitter handle it says "bikes and family". 
 
 He was so loving and this is going to be such a great loss for them. ||||| CESENA, Italy -- Former MotoGP world champion Nicky Hayden died in hospital on Monday, five days after he was hit by a car while training on his bicycle. Hayden was 35. 
 
 Maurizio Bufalini Hospital in Cesena, where Hayden had been since the collision last Wednesday, made the announcement. Hayden had severe cerebral damage and multiple traumatic injuries. 
 
 "The medical team has verified the death of the patient Nicholas Patrick Hayden, who has been undergoing care since last Wednesday May 17 in the intensive care unit of the Bufalini Hospital in Cesena following a very serious polytrauma which occurred the same day," the hospital statement said. 
 
 American motorcycle racer Nicky Hayden, who won the MotoGP title in 2006, died five days after being hit by a car while training on his bicycle in Italy. He was 35. Mirco Lazzari gp/Getty Images 
 
 Hayden was training on the Rimini coast following a motorcycle race at nearby Imola. The Peugeot that hit Hayden had its windshield smashed. 
 
 Judicial authorities have opened an investigation into the crash and questioned the 30-year-old driver of the Peugeot. According to The Guardian, the driver was given a Breathalyzer test and was not over the limit. 
 
 Hayden won the MotoGP title in 2006, finishing narrowly ahead of Italian great Valentino Rossi. 
 
 In a MotoGP career spanning 2003 to '16 with Honda and Ducati, Hayden posted three victories and 28 podium finishes in 218 races. 
 
 After switching to the World Superbike championship last year, Hayden finished fifth overall. 
 
 Hayden was 13th in Superbike this season, riding for the Red Bull Honda team. 
 
 Fellow motorcycle racers reacted to Hayden's death on Twitter. 
 
 Destrozado tras la noticia. Nunca te olvidaremos! / I'm shattered after the news. We will never forget you! #DEPNickyHayden #RIPNickyHayden pic.twitter.com/qF5wNnFM6o — Marc Márquez (@marcmarquez93) May 22, 2017 
 
 Always in my heart, champ. RIP Nicky. #69 pic.twitter.com/ML35Qm7f1g — Dani Pedrosa (@26_DaniPedrosa) May 22, 2017 
 
 Hayden was born in Owensboro, Kentucky. 
 
 Several family members had flown in from the United States, including Hayden's mother and brother. 
 
 Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.