Source: Multi-News

LIMA (Reuters) - Prosecutors in Peru suspect that a Canadian man murdered a revered indigenous medicine woman in an Amazonian village last week before being lynched in retribution, a spokesman for the attorney general’s office said on Tuesday. 
 
 Funeral of Olivia Arevalo, an 81-year-old indigenous shaman of the Shipibo-Conibo tribe who was shot dead near her home in Ucayali, in Pucallpa, Peru April 21, 2018. REUTERS/ Hugo Enrique Alejos 
 
 Olivia Arevalo, an 81-year-old shaman of the Shipibo-Conibo tribe, was shot to death near her home in the region of Ucayali on Thursday, prompting outrage from villagers who blamed Sebastian Woodroffe, a native of Vancouver Island. 
 
 Prosecutors had initially been pursuing several potential leads into who killed Arevalo. 
 
 But their main hypotheses now is that Woodroffe murdered Arevalo because he was upset that her son had not repaid him 14,000 soles ($4,335), said Ricardo Jimenez, the head of a regional group of prosecutors. 
 
 Authorities found a document showing that Woodroffe bought a gun on April 3 from a police officer, Jimenez said, adding that the police officer is now being sought for questioning. 
 
 A witness also testified that a silver-colored pistol fell from a backpack that Woodroffe was carrying as villagers grabbed him before the lynching, Jimenez said. 
 
 “We want to see if that weapon actually existed. We haven’t found it yet but we’re looking,” Jimenez said. “With the new evidence that has appeared, he is the main suspect.” 
 
 Neither Woodroffe’s nor Arevalo’s family could be reached for comment. 
 
 Police officers carry the body of Sebastian Woodroffe, a 41-year-old Canadian citizen, who was beaten and strangled with a rope in the jungle region of Ucayali on Friday after members of an indigenous community accused him of killing a revered medicine woman, in Pucallpa, Peru April 21, 2018. REUTERS/ Hugo Enrique Alejos 
 
 Arevalo was considered a wealth of knowledge about Amazonian plants and native traditions. 
 
 Yarrow Willard, a friend of Woodroffe’s in Canada, said Woodroffe was not violent and had never used a gun. “He was a loving father and kind man who was not capable of the crimes he was accused of,” Willard said in an email. 
 
 Willard said Woodroffe had gone to Peru “seeking healing as he was feeling troubled and slightly lost.” 
 
 The case has spotlighted surging tourism in Peru’s Amazon related to the hallucinogenic plant brew ayahuasca, which has long been used by tribes in spiritual and healing rituals and is now popular among foreigners seeking vivid spiritual experiences or help with addiction. 
 
 Woodroffe traveled to Peru to learn about ayahuasca and plant medicine so he could become an addictions counselor, according to his post on the crowdfunding website Indiegogo.com. 
 
 Tests of Woodroffe’s remains are expected to determine if he fired a weapon or was intoxicated before dying. Authorities have expedited the laboratory work and results are now expected this week, instead of in more than two weeks as initially estimated, Jimenez said. 
 
 Two men sought by police for allegedly lynching Woodroffe appear to have fled, Jimenez said. 
 
 In 2015, a Canadian killed a friend in self-defense during an ayahuasca session. In 2012, an 18-year-old U.S. citizen died after taking the drug and workers at an ayahuasca retreat tried to hide his body. ||||| Image copyright AFP Image caption The body of Sebastian Woodroffe was found buried in a shallow grave 
 
 A judge in Peru has ordered the arrest of two suspects in the lynching of a 41-year-old Canadian man in the remote Amazon region last week. 
 
 A video uploaded to social media showed Sebastian Woodroffe lying in a puddle while two men put a rope around his neck and then dragged him along. 
 
 Police later found his body buried in a shallow grave. 
 
 A local prosecutor says Mr Woodroffe may have been killed because locals suspected him of murdering a healer. 
 
 Shaman's murder 
 
 The spiritual healer, 81-year-old Olivia Arévalo from the Shipibo-Conibo indigenous group, was shot dead outside her home on Thursday. 
 
 While no-one witnessed the killing and the murder weapon has not been found, her family blamed Mr Woodroffe for her murder, prosecutor Ricardo Jiménez said. 
 
 Mr Jiménez says that the family alleges that Mr Woodroffe was angry at Ms Arévalo for refusing to conduct a spiritual ceremony in which the hallucinogenic drug ayahuasca is used. 
 
 Read more about ayahuasca: 
 
 According to his own fundraising site, Mr Woodroffe wanted to change careers and become an addiction counsellor using hallucinogenic medicine. 
 
 He had travelled to Peru to do an apprenticeship with Shipibo healers, who have been using ayahuasca in their spiritual ceremonies for centuries. 
 
 Locals said he turned to Ms Arévalo for help and instruction. 
 
 Image copyright Tom Askew Image caption Olivia Arévalo was a spiritual healer as well as a rights activist 
 
 Mr Jiménez said police were also investigating a number of other possible leads in Ms Arévalo's murder, including the theory that she may have been killed by another foreigner over an unpaid debt. 
 
 Police are also still investigating who else may have been involved in Mr Woodroffe's lynching. 
 
 The video showed a number of people standing by watching the crime unfold. 
 
 Remote areas of the Amazon have a very thin police presence and crimes often go unpunished. Communities sometimes bypass the police altogether, choosing to punish those they suspect of committing crimes themselves.