Source: Multi-News

An Alaska Airlines flight from Seattle to Washington, DC, Monday morning was powered with a jet fuel blend containing 20 percent renewable biofuel made from the leftovers of Pacific Northwest logging. The biofuel remains much more expensive than regular jet fuel derived from oil. 
 
 An Alaska Airlines flight from Seattle to Washington, D.C., on Monday morning was powered with a jet-fuel blend containing 20 percent renewable biofuel made from Pacific Northwest forest residuals — the limbs and branches that remain after the harvesting of managed forests. 
 
 Billed as the first commercial flight running partly on wood, the alternative jet fuel was produced through the research efforts of the Northwest Advanced Renewables Alliance (NARA). Led by Washington State University, the group aims to build a sustainable supply chain for aviation biofuel using the leavings from logging operations. 
 
 The wood came from Washington, Oregon and Montana, including forests managed by Weyerhaeuser, the Muckleshoot Indian Tribe and the Confederated Salish Kootenai Tribes. 
 
 Biofuels company Gevo used patented technologies to convert cellulosic sugars derived from wood waste into renewable isobutanol at a fermentation facility in St. Joseph, Mo., then further converted that at its biorefinery in Silsbee, Texas. 
 
 The resultant fuel is certified as equivalent to regular aircraft-jet fuel produced from oil. 
 
 Alaska used 1,080 gallons of the biofuel on the flight. The airline said that replacing 20 percent of its entire fuel supply at Sea-Tac Airport with the same fuel would reduce greenhouse-gas emissions by about 142,000 metric tons of CO2 per year. 
 
 However, for now the biofuel remains much more expensive than regular jet fuel, so it won’t be used for day-to-day flying. 
 
 In a September financial filing, Gevo said it aims to get the selling price of its pre-refined isobutanol product down to between $3.50 and $4.50 per gallon this year, according to data from S&P Global Market Intelligence. 
 
 That compares with crude oil, which sells for about $1.05 per gallon. 
 
 Alaska spokeswoman Bobbie Egan said “the NARA group is not breaking cost down” but conceded it’s “priced at a premium.” 
 
 Gevo’s latest filing also warns there is “substantial doubt” about the company’s future, “which may hinder our ability to obtain further financing” and continue operations. For the first nine months of 2016, Gevo lost $35 million on revenue of $21 million. 
 
 Among the passengers on Monday’s flight was Leah Grace, deputy press secretary for U.S. Sen. Patty Murray, D-Wash. 
 
 “As a passenger on this flight, I can confirm it was very pleasant, but unfortunately did not smell like Christmas trees,” Grace tweeted after landing. ||||| We are dedicated to delivering low carbon sustainable fuels and chemicals. CO2, THE greenhouse gas is our renewable carbon source. We know it’s possible to replace the non-sustainable, greenhouse gas generating fossil carbon-based chemicals and fuels used all across the world today with renewable carbon alternatives. Our technologies make it possible. 
 
 We want it all: fuels for cars, airplanes, trucks, small engines, boats, and ships. We want to replace the carbon source for major packaging plastics like polyester and polypropylene. Done right, we enable production of protein that helps feed the world. With sustainable farming, we can help farmers capture CO2 in the soil, improving soil quality. Together, with our customers and partners we can change what’s possible, and do our part to positively change the world. ||||| An Alaska Airlines Boeing 737 became the first commercial flight to be powered on a biofuel blend made from forest residuals. The flight on Monday, Nov. 14, 2016 flew from Sea-Tac Airport to Reagan National Airport in Washington, D.C. (Photo: KOMO News) 
 
 SEA-TAC AIRPORT, Wash - Alaska Airlines made history on Monday with the first commercial flight that used renewable, alternative jet fuel made from forest residuals. 
 
 The Boeing 737 jet flew from Sea-Tac Airport to Reagan National Airport in Washington D.C. with fuel made from a blend of tree limbs and branches. 
 
 "The jet fuel itself is 20 percent blend of petroleum and renewables," said Glenn Johnston from Gevo, Inc. "This is the future of being able to reduce our greenhouse gas footprint." 
 
 
 
 The material is the byproduct of a timber harvest and usually heads for the burn pile with other waste. 
 
 The fuel for the flight came from local tribal lands and private forest operations and was produced through the efforts of Washington State University and the Northwest Advanced Renewables Alliance (NARA). 
 
 "[It is] the first commercial airline flight to be powered by certified, sustainable, bio-jet fuel, produced from wood and other wood materials that are the result of timber harvesting on managed forest lands," said NARA executive director Ralph Cavaleri Cavalier, who is also the Vice President for Research at WSU. 
 
 The project started five years ago, funded by a $40 million federal grant from the National Institute of Food and Agriculture. 
 
 
 
 Replacing 20 percent of the fuel used to power Alaska Airlines planes at Sea-Tac would reduce carbon emissions equal to 30,000 cars a year. 
 
 "Hopefully it's something that will be sustainable and last for a long time that we can continue to improve this technology and get more efficiency out of it," said passenger Steven Wright. 
 
 Funding is still needed to put the fuel in daily flights, not just demonstrations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Right now, the biofuel blend is more expensive than jet fuel. But, the hope is that production and material costs will come down in the next few years. 
 
 "It really is the dawn of a new day when it comes to aviation and biofuels," said Port of Seattle Commissioner Jon Creighton "We understand that we have a responsibility to our local communities to move the ball forward." 
 
 
 
