Source: Multi-News

A huge wildfire in Fort McMurray, Alta., destroyed an entire neighbourhood and burned homes and businesses in several others Tuesday, and continues to rage out of control. 
 
 CBC Radio presents live coverage As CBC Edmonton is the only radio station currently on the air in Fort McMurray, we will continue with live fire coverage throughout the night. You can find CBC Edmonton at 93.9 FM and 740 AM 
 
 By late afternoon, the entire city of 60,000 had been ordered evacuated. Residents by the thousands fled the fire and for hours caused gridlock on Highway 63, even overwhelming oilsands work camps, where beds and meals were offered. Police were patrolling the highway with cans of gas, after fuel supplies ran out in Fort McMurray, Wandering River and Grasslands. 
 
 Fire chief Darby Allen said the entire neighbourhood of Beacon Hill "appears to have been lost" and the fire burned many homes in other parts of the city. 
 
 No buildings were lost in the city's downtown area, Allen said. Despite the devastation, there were no reports of deaths or serious injuries. 
 
 As of 10:30 p.m. MT, officials reported the neighbourhoods of Abasand, Wood Buffalo, Dickensfield, and Waterways saw only some damage. 
 
 No estimates were available on the number of homes and businesses that were destroyed. 
 
 Witnesses reported the Flying-J gas station exploded, while the Super 8 Motel and a Denny's restaurant were gutted. 
 
 Officials said about 17,000 residents escaped the city to the north, while another 35,000 drove south, at least half that number headed for Edmonton, 430 kilometres away. 
 
 'We've had a devastating day,' Chief Darby Allen told CBC's Briar Stewart. 'It's been the worst day of my career' 1:13 
 
 Gas stations were emptied of fuel along the way leaving many motorists stranded on the highway. 
 
 Fire officials said they expect Wednesday could be just as bad, with the wind expected to pick up and the hot, dry weather to continue. 
 
 Allen called Tuesday "a devastating day," and said fire crews were simply overwhelmed by the speed and power of the wildfire. 
 
 "Everybody has given everything today to do the very best they could," Allen said. "I can categorically state that everything that was absolutely possible to protect the community was done." 
 
 Taken in the afternoon on Tuesday, the fire threatens the city of Fort McMurray. 1:21 
 
 Conditions changed quickly 
 
 Conditions on the ground changed quickly as the day progressed. 
 
 Allen said firefighters were "a little worried" earlier in the day, but with the 30 C heat and dry conditions, once the wind came up the fire became an inferno. 
 
 "It's been the worst day of my career," Allen said earlier. "It's a nasty, ugly fire and it hasn't shown any forgiveness." 
 
 By 6:30 p.m., the entire city was under a mandatory evacuation order, making it the largest wildfire evacuation in the province's history, far surpassing the Slave Lake fire that made international headlines five years ago. 
 
 Previous Next 
 
 Fort McMurray's only hospital, the Northern Lights Regional Health Centre, was evacuated as flames approached from the Waterways neighbourhood. 
 
 The province closed Highway 63 and Highway 881 to Fort McMurray to all non-essential travel. 
 
 "All Albertans are watching this," said Premier Rachel Notley. "All Albertans are with the people of Fort McMurray." 
 
 Notley said she hopes to get up to the city on Wednesday depending on the status of the fire. 
 
 CBC has confirmed that senior military officials are preparing for a request to come from Notley on Wednesday for help to fight the wildfires. 
 
 The Department of National Defence may offer airlift and other transportation support for firefighting as well as logistical help. 
 
 Alberta's opposition Leader Brian Jean, a Fort McMurray MLA, was trying to get back to the city. He believes his Fort McMurray home may have fallen to the flames. 
 
 'It's probably all blown away now' 
 
 The fire had barely hit the Centennial Trailer Park before John Davidson and his girlfriend, Joanne Bates, had lost everything. 
 
 "It was the second one to go," said Davidson. "It's probably all blown away now." 
 
 Behind him, the flames consumed what was left of the trailer park where his former home sat. 
 
 Follow our live blog for up-to-the-minute news updates on the Fort McMurray wildfires: 
 
 Can't see the live blog? Click here. 
 
 Davidson and Bates had lived there for more than a year and kept their vehicles and two snowmobiles there. 
 
 "Everything I worked for the last two years, it's all gone," said Davidson. 
 
 While the two commend the RCMP and the fire department, they are upset that they weren't able to get into the trailer park to get their belongings. 
 
 "It's a disaster," said Bates. "I think it's not fair. They didn't even let us take our things, so we lost everything." 
 
 Many evacuation facilities full 
 
 Finding a bed for the Fort McMurray evacuees became a problem as the evening progressed. 
 
 The evacuees who fled north from the town seeking shelter at oilsands camps arrived at facilities already full. 
 
 "Realistically, we are seeing camps fill up. The camps closer to town have been filled," said Robin Smith, spokesman for the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo around 7:30 p.m. on Tuesday night. "People are pushing on toward Syncrude." 
 
 A pic of what trying to leave Fort McMurray looks like right now <a href="https://t.co/ESE7bzPkx1">pic.twitter.com/ESE7bzPkx1</a> —@ccccrystal__ 
 
 The municipality is working with Syncrude to co-ordinate for the arrival of evacuees, Smith said. The camp is about an hour-long drive from town, he said. 
 
 "We are asking them to take as many as they can." 
 
 Shell Canada said it will open its Albian Village, about 85 kilometres north of Fort McMurray, to all resident evacuees. 
 
 The Fort McKay First Nation, about 50 kilometres north of Fort McMurray, also opened camps to evacuees. 
 
 Fire fight to be worse tomorrow 
 
 The news won't get any better any time soon, Bruce Mayer with Alberta Forestry said in a mid-afternoon news conference. 
 
 "This fire today with the temperature, the relative humidity … the fuel is very explosive out there right now," he said. 
 
 Mayer said the province has nine air tankers, a dozen helicopters, and more than 100 firefighters, with more on the way. 
 
 Firefighters are expecting a cold front to move into the area by mid-afternoon Wednesday, with winds gusting up to 50 km/h. 
 
 "So tomorrow is expected to be a more intense burning day than today is," Mayer said. ||||| This photo provided by Tyler Burgett shows flames from a wildfire along Highway 63 in Fort McMurray, Alberta, Tuesday, May 3, 2016. At least half of the northern Alberta city was ordered evacuated Tuesday... (Associated Press) 
 
 FORT MCMURRAY, Alberta (AP) — The entire population of the Canadian oil sands city of Fort McMurray, Alberta, has been ordered to evacuate from a wildfire that officials said destroyed whole neighborhoods. 
 
 More than 80,000 residents have been ordered to flee as flames continued to make their way into the city Tuesday. Residents were panicked. Highway 63 is the only road out of the city and flames jumped the road. 
 
 Emergency officials said whole neighborhoods have been destroyed but did not have an estimate of the number of homes affected. They said the fire is burning in several areas in the city's south and said there have been no reports of serious injuries. 
 
 The wildfire, whipped by unpredictable winds on a day of high temperatures, worsened dramatically in a short time and many residents had little notice to flee. 
 
 Alberta Premier Rachel Notley called it the biggest evacuation in the history of the province and said officials were doing all they could to ensure everyone's safety. She said they were looking into the possibility of an airlift for residents with medical issues. 
 
 Brian Jean, the leader of Alberta's opposition party and a resident of the city, said much of downtown Fort McMurray is being destroyed by fire, but the fire chief said there had mostly been spot fires which have been extinguished 
 
 "My home of the last 10 years and the home I had for 15 years before that are both destroyed," Jean said. 
 
 Scott Long of Alberta Emergency Management said the flames had burned a number of structures, but couldn't say how many. 
 
 Carol Christian's home was in one of the neighborhoods under the order to leave. She said it was scary as she drove to an evacuation center with her son and cat. 
 
 "When you leave ... it's an overwhelming feeling to think that you'll never see your house again," she said, her voice breaking. 
 
 "It was absolutely horrifying when we were sitting there in traffic. You look up and then you watch all the trees candle-topping ... up the hills where you live and you're thinking, 'Oh my God. We got out just in time.'" 
 
 The main road into Fort McMurray, was closed at the southern entrance to the city after flames jumped the road. Pictures posted on Twitter showed long lines of traffic and skies darkened by thick smoke as flames licked the edges of roads. 
 
 Fort McMurray is the capital of Alberta's oil sands region. The Alberta oil sands are the third largest reserves of oil in the world behind Saudi Arabia and Venezuela. 
 
 Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau tweeted that he spoke with Notley and said the federal government stands ready to help. He urged residents to follow evacuation orders. 
 
 Oil sands work camps were being pressed into service to house evacuees as the raging wildfire emptied the city. Most oil sands projects are well north of the community, while the worst of the flames were on the city's south side. 
 
 Officials were also evacuating non-essential staff at Suncor's base plant. It is 30 kilometers (18 miles) away and one of the closest facilities to the city. Spokesman Paul Newmarch said evacuees were moving into the plant's work camps. 
 
 Will Gibson, a spokesman for Syncrude, which also has a plant north of the town, was himself one of the evacuees heading north away from the flames. 
 
 Gibson said he had to flee his neighborhood via a grass embankment because the fire had already cut off the road at both ends. 
 
 "I left my neighborhood and there were houses on fire," he said. "I don't know if and when I'll be going back." 
 
 The large work camps can normally accommodate thousands of workers. 
 
 A local radio reporter said a trailer park that had been evacuated on Monday was on fire and flames were advancing toward businesses. 
 
 "It's chaos on the roads. People are panicking. It's gridlock on the roads. Flames are right next to a gas station," said Carina Van Heerde with radio station KAOS. 
 
 Unseasonably hot temperatures combined with dry conditions have transformed the boreal forest in much of Alberta into a tinder box. The wildfire threat ranged from very high to extreme in different areas. 
 
 The Alberta government banned all open fires except in designated camping sites in forested areas due to the threat. There were about 30 fires burning in the province. 
 
 The province was calling in more reinforcements to Fort McMurray, including 100 more firefighters and a giant helicopter that can dump more than 2,000 liters (500 gallons) of water at a time.