Source: Multi-News

The architectural career of Zaha Hadid has not been traditional or easy. She entered the field with illustrious credentials. Born in Baghdad, she studied at the highly regarded Architectural Association in London, was a partner in the avant-garde Office of Metropolitan Architecture with Rem Koolhaas, and has held prestigious posts at one time or another at the world’s finest universities including Harvard, Yale, and many others. Much admired by the younger generation of architects, her appearance on campuses is always a cause for excitement and overflowing audiences. 
 
 Her path to worldwide recognition has been a heroic struggle as she inexorably rose to the highest ranks of the profession. Clients, journalists, fellow professionals are mesmerized by her dynamic forms and strategies for achieving a truly distinctive approach to architecture and its settings. Each new project is more audacious than the last and the sources of her originality seem endless. 
 
 Ms. Hadid has become more and more recognized as she continues to win competition after competition, always struggling to get her very original winning entries built. Discouraged, but undaunted, she has used the competition experiences as a “laboratory” for continuing to hone her exceptional talent in creating an architectural idiom like no other. 
 
 It is not surprising that one of the architects whose work Ms. Hadid admires is another Pritzker Prize winner, the preeminent South American author of Brasilia, and other major works—Oscar Niemeyer. They share a certain fearlessness in their work and both are unafraid of risk that comes inevitably with their respective vocabularies of bold visionary forms. 
 
 The competition winning phase of Ms. Hadid’s career gradually began to result in built works such as the Vitra Fire Station, the LFone in Weil am Rhein, the Mind Zone in the Millennium Dome and reached a recent high point with the opening of the critically acclaimed Rosenthal Center for Contemporary Art in Cincinnati, Ohio. 
 
 The full dimensions of Ms. Hadid’s prodigious artistic outpouring of work is apparent not only in architecture, but in exhibition designs, stage sets, furniture, paintings, and drawings. 
 
 The jury is pleased to acknowledge one of the great architects at the dawning of the twenty-first century by awarding the 2004 Pritzker Architecture Prize to Zaha Hadid, to commend her extraordinary achievements, and to wish her continued success. ||||| Zaha Hadid has died aged 65. Getty Images / Jeff J Mitchell 
 
 The late architect Zaha Hadid, known as "The Queen of Curves" for the modern curving designs of her buildings, died Thursday at the age of 65. 
 
 Her legendary career led her to become the first woman to win the Pritzker Architecture Prize (the Nobel Prize of her field) in 2004. She also received numerous other awards and honors, including being named a Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire (DME) in 2012 and earning the Royal Institute of British Architects Gold Medal in 2015 — the first ever given to a woman. 
 
 The Iraqi-born British architect died in a Miami hospital after suffering a heart attack, a representative for Zaha Hadid Architects confirmed with Business Insider. She had been admitted to the hospital after contracting bronchitis earlier this week. 
 
 Hadid designed everything from a metro station in Saudi Arabia to the aquatics center for the 2012 London Olympics to a city center in downtown Belgrade— all in her signature flowing style. 
 
 One of her newest buildings was just completed in New York City — an 11-story condominium made of steel and glass that incorporates a unique chevron pattern. 
 
 Click through to see how her style has evolved over time, and remember the artist through the body of work she has left behind all over the world. ||||| One of contemporary architecture’s biggest stars, the Iraqi-born, London-based Zaha Hadid, died in Miami of a heart attack today, Mar. 31. She was 65. 
 
 Hadid, the only female member of the elite tribe of so-called “starchitects,” celebrities of the profession, was the winner of the prestigious Pritzker Architecture Prize and was the first woman to receive the Royal Institute of British Architects Gold Medal. 
 
 AP Photo/Carlos Osorio The Broad Art Museum in Michigan 
 
 “She had contracted bronchitis earlier this week and suffered a sudden heart attack while being treated in hospital,” her firm, Zaha Hadid Architects, said in a statement. “Zaha Hadid was widely regarded to be the greatest female architect in the world today.” 
 
 “Working with office partner Patrik Schumacher, her interest was in the interface between architecture, landscape, and geology; which her practice integrates with the use of innovative technologies often resulting in unexpected and dynamic architectural forms.” 
 
 ReutersVictor Fraile Pavilion for Chanel’s “Mobile Art” exhibition in Hong Kong. 
 
 Hadid was known for imaginative, gravity-defying structures, including the London Olympic Aquatic Centre, the MAXXI museum in Rome, and the Guangzhou Opera House in China. In addition to accolades, Hadid’s work has also received criticism. She did not shy away from designing for autocratic regimes including Qatar and Azerbaijan, both known to violate human rights. 
 
 Nevertheless, in a field that has often disregarded women and championed men, Hadid’s career was a beacon to many female architects. She established her practice in London in 1979, and was named a Dame in 2012. 
 
 An exterior view of Hadid’s Heydar Aliyev Center in downtown of Baku, Azerbaijan. EPA/Robert Ghement. 
 
 EPA/Facundo Arrizabalaga Hadid poses in the newly constructed Serpentine Sackler Gallery in Kensington Gardens, in London, Britain. 
 
 EPA/Yna Hadid’s Dongdaemun Design Plaza in Seoul. 
 
 AP Photo/Carlos Osorio The Eli and Edythe Broad Art Museum on the campus of Michigan State University in East Lansing, Michigan. 
 
 Reuters/Kyodo Hadid’s design for the Tokyo National Stadium, scrapped by the Japanese government because it was too expensive. 
 
 Reuters/Jason Lee The Galaxy Soho building in Beijing. 
 
 Reuters/Andrew Winning A sculpture by Zaha Hadid titled “Kloris” at the Royal Academy of Arts in central London. 
 
 Reuters/Victor Fraile Hadid’s futuristic pavilion for Chanel’s “Mobile Art” exhibition, placed in Hong Kong’s Central district.