Source: Multi-News

Archaeologists made a stunning, if not stinky discovery during their excavations of I Vilhelm Werners square in Odense on Funen. 
 
 The digs revealed numerous latrine barrels dating back to the 1300s and still filled with their intended content, proving – among other things – that human excrement still has a putrid odour even if it is centuries old. 
 
 Many of the barrels, which were found during 2013, are in excellent condition and their contents can provide a unique insight into the dietary habits of people living some seven hundred years ago. 
 
 READ MORE: Danish research gives new details on Ice Age extinction 
 
 Huge urban dig 
 
 But what’s also interesting is that the barrels were usually used for something else before becoming latrines, and the markings on the barrels reveal who owned it and whether it was used for the transportation of goods or storage of fish. 
 
 The dig, which is ongoing and is one of the largest urban archaeological excavations in Danish history, also uncovered three barrels stacked on top of one another that turned out to be a well. The barrels were tied together and packed with clay, and at the bottom archaeologists found a system of pipes. 
 
 Visitors can enjoy a free tour of the excavation every Tuesday and Thursday at 13:00 and can visit the archaeologists’ workshop every Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday from noon to 15:00. ||||| Intestinal parasites have been found lurking in ancient poop in the toilet of a medieval castle in western Cyprus, scientists report. 
 
 The findings paint a less than pretty picture of the health and hygiene of crusaders stationed on the Mediterranean island 800 years ago. Poor sanitation likely meant that food and water supplies were contaminated by fecal material, allowing parasitic infections to spread, the study suggests. 
 
 Short-lived latrine 
 
 Researchers from the University of Cambridge dug into the pit of dried-out waste under a latrine in the remains of Saranda Kolones (Greek for "Forty Columns") at Paphos, a city at the southwestern tip of Cyprus and a UNESCO World Heritage site. [Through the Years: A Gallery of the World's Toilets] 
 
 Overlooking Paphos harbor, and next to a complex of Roman villas with remarkably intact floor mosaics, Saranda Kolones was long thought to be a temple because of the granite columns that littered its ruins. But excavations in the 1950s revealed that it was actually a short-lived concentric castle. 
 
 English King Richard the Lionheart sold the island of Cyprus to the Frankish crusader Guy de Lusignan in May 1192. Archaeologists believe the Franks built Saranda Kolones to defend Paphos harbor soon after their occupation of the island began. But in 1222, the city was rocked by a powerful earthquake thought to be at least 7.0 in magnitude. Much of the fortress was left in ruins, never to be rebuilt, but the latrines on its lower floors survived. 
 
 These toilets were carved to fit the human form, with a half moon-shaped hole in the seat leading to a sewer below. Cambridge researchers Evilena Anastasiou and Piers Mitchell, who study ancient parasites, collected samples from one of those cesspools, rehydrated the waste and strained it through a micro-sieve to catch parasite eggs, each smaller than a tenth of a millimeter. 
 
 Worms in the waste 
 
 Under a microscope, the researchers saw that the samples contained the eggs of two of the world's most common and widespread intestinal parasites: whipworms (Trichuris trichiura), which cause the infection known as trichocephalus, and giant roundworms (Ascaris lumbricoides), the largest of the nematodes found in human intestines, with adults that can grow to more than 1 foot (30 centimeters) long. 
 
 People with a light load of these worms may experience no symptoms. But when whipworms and giant roundworms heavily colonize the digestive tract, they compete with their hosts for food, siphoning off the nutrients that would normally be absorbed in the intestines. Eggs of the parasites pass through the feces and spread to other hosts by ingestion (say, when a human doesn't wash their hands and spreads the parasite to food or other objects that get consumed). That means infections are most common in places with poor hygiene and sanitation as well as areas where human waste is used as fertilizer or where people defecate in the soil. 
 
 Mitchell has estimated that during a two- or three-year crusade expedition, noblemen and clergy were just as likely to die in battle as they were to succumb to malnutrition and disease. Presumably, the risk of malnutrition would have been even worse for poor foot soldiers with fewer resources. The new study suggests that parasites likely contributed to the demise of many soldiers who died of starvation or disease. 
 
 "In these circumstances [it] is quite likely that medieval soldiers with a heavy parasite load would have been at increased risk of death from starvation during famine episodes such as long sieges or expeditions when supplies ran out," the researchers wrote. "This is because they would have had to share the limited available food with their parasites." 
 
 Studying feces is a rather unglamorous but useful way for archaeologists to reconstruct the diets, health and lifestyle of ancient people. The parasites described in this study are hardly the oldest ever found in Cyprus. A recent analysis of human waste up to 10,000 years old revealed roundworms, whipworms and tapeworms at the Neolithic Cypriot sites of Khirokitia and Shillourokambos. 
 
 The research was detailed in the International Journal of Paleopathology. 
 
 Follow Megan Gannon on Twitterand Google+. Follow us @livescience, Facebook& Google+. Original article on LiveScience.com. ||||| The well was probably part of beer brewing, as some partially germinated barley excavated nearby suggests. 
 
 To prevent mud from getting into the well, the lowest barrel was covered with reeds. 
 
 A system of pipes at the bottom of the structure led water to the well. 
 
 It appears that barrels were recycled for various use in Medieval Odense. The excavation also unearthed three barrels stacked on top of one another and tied together that served as a basic well. 
 
 Described as being in "excellent condition," the human excrement was found in wooden barrels originally used to transport goods and store fish. Later converted into latrines, the barrels were unearthed in the center of the medieval town of Odense, the birthplace of fairy tale writer Hans Christian Andersen. "We are talking of 700-year-old latrines. And yes, they still smell bad," Maria Elisabeth Lauridsen, the archaeologist in charge of the excavation, told Discovery News. 
 
 A number of Medieval latrines -- still filled with their original contents -- have been unearthed in Denmark, according to archaeologists working in one of the largest urban archaeological excavations in Danish history. 
 
 A number of Medieval wooden barrels have been uncovered in Denmark, revealing their less- than-glamorous contents. 
 
 Originally built to transport goods and store fish, the barrels were converted into latrines — still filled with their original contents. 
 
 "We are talking about 700-year-old latrines. And yes, they still smell bad," Maria Elisabeth Lauridsen, the archaeologist in charge of the excavation, told Discovery News. 
 
 Photos: Digging Up a Medieval Latrine 
 
 Unearthed in the center of the Medieval town of Odense, the birthplace of the fairy tale writer Hans Christian Andersen, the barrels are believed to have served a toilet area. 
 
 "The excavation is characterized by great conditions for preservation and is located on a Medieval site that has been found to contain brick houses, half-timbered houses and stables," Lauridsen said. 
 
 Described as being in "excellent condition," the human excrement can give scientists unique insight into what people ate in Denmark in the Middle Ages. 
 
 Photos: Top 10 Things Poop Makes Better 
 
 "Preliminary results of analysis show that raspberries were popular in Odense in the 1300s. The contents also contain small pieces of moss, leather and fabric which were used as toilet paper," Lauridsen said. 
 
 It appears that barrels were recycled for various use in Medieval Odense. The excavation unearthed three barrels stacked on top of one another and tied together that served as a basic well. 
 
 Poop Gets Its Close-Up 
 
 A system of pipes at the bottom of the structure led water to the well. To prevent mud from getting into the well, the lowest barrel was covered with reeds. 
 
 "This well has probably been a part of beer brewing. We have excavated nearby a stock of partially germinated barley which is commonly used in the brewing process," Lauridsen said. 
 
 Video: What's in Your Poop? 
 
 Visitors can go on a free tour of the excavation every Tuesday and Thursday at 1:00 pm and can visit the archaeologists' workshop every Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday from noon to 3:00. 
 
 "We are finding new and exciting information about the life that was lived in Odense during the 14th century," Lauridsen said. 
 
 Image: Human excrement still smelling bad has been found in these 700 year old barrel latrines. Credit: Odense City Museum.