Source: Multi-News

WASHINGTON – After saying there was no evidence the two had ever met, the White House acknowledged Thursday that President Obama once lived for a few weeks with his uncle, Onyango Obama, a Kenyan who was in the United States illegally and faced possible deportation. 
 
 The president met his father’s half-brother when he moved to the Boston area to attend Harvard Law School and stayed with him until his apartment was ready, White House Press Secretary Jay Carney said. After moving out, Obama saw his uncle, known as Omar, once every few months until he graduated. 
 
 “The president has not seen Omar Obama in 20 years and has not spoken with him in a decade,” Carney said. 
 
 The update follows Onyango Obama’s statement in court this week that the president had lived with him. The elder Obama was in court for a deportation hearing following a drunken driving arrest. He won status as a legal permanent resident. He came to the United States in 1963 on a student visa that expired in 1970, and he has lived in the country illegally ever since. 
 
 PHOTOS: 2013's memorable political moments 
 
 The Boston Globe reported last year that the White House said the president had never met his uncle. White House aides say they actually told the Globe that there was no record of the two having met. 
 
 On Thursday, Carney said no one at the White House had actually asked the president if he’d come face to face with his uncle before making that statement to the press. 
 
 “Back when this arose, folks looked at the record, including the president’s book, and there was no evidence that they had met,” Carney said. “Nobody spoke to the president.” 
 
 When the issue came up again this week, Carney said, he personally took the question to the president. 
 
 “The president said that he, in fact, had met Omar Obama when he moved to Cambridge for law school, and that he stayed with him for a brief period of time until his apartment was ready,” Carney said. 
 
 After that, aides say, uncle and nephew saw each other once every few months while the president was in Cambridge, and then gradually fell out of touch after the president graduated from law school. 
 
 Carney said there was “absolutely zero interference” by the White House in Obama’s legal case. 
 
 Follow Politics Now on Twitter and Facebook 
 
 christi.parsons@latimes.com 
 
 Twitter: @cparsons ||||| President Obama acknowledged on Thursday that he lived with his Kenyan uncle for a brief period in the 1980s while preparing to attend Harvard Law School, contradicting a statement more than a year ago that the White House had no record of the two ever meeting. 
 
 Their relationship came into question on Tuesday at the deportation hearing of his uncle, Onyango Obama, in Boston immigration court. His uncle had lived in the United States illegally since the 1970s and revealed in testimony for the first time that his famous nephew had stayed at his Cambridge apartment for about three weeks. At the time, Onyango Obama was here illegally and fighting deportation. 
 
 On Thursday, a White House official said the press office had not fully researched the relationship between the president and his uncle before telling the Globe that they had no record of the two meeting. This time, the press office asked the president directly, which they had not done in 2011. 
 
 Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 
 
 “The president first met Omar Obama when he moved to Cambridge for law school,” said White House spokesman Eric Schultz. “The president did stay with him for a brief period of time until his apartment was ready. After that, they saw each other once every few months, but after law school they fell out of touch. The president has not seen him in 20 years, has not spoken with him in 10.” 
 
 The White House said Obama’s immigration case was handled “without any interference from the president or the White House.” 
 
 Onyango Obama’s immigration case raised numerous concerns about a potential conflict of interest after his arrest in August 2011 for drunken driving in Framingham. The arrest revealed is outstanding deportation orders and his relationship to the president. 
 
 Shortly after his arrest, he told an officer, “I think I will call the White House.” 
 
 Obama is the second relative of the president’s father to face deportation to Kenya since he took office. 
 
 Zeituni Onyango, Obama’s sister, won asylum in 2010 after a federal official disclosed days before the president’s historic election in 2008 that she was living illegally in the United States, in Boston public housing. 
 
 President Obama had written in his memoir, “Dreams from My Father,” that he had met Zeituni Onyango, his aunt. 
 
 But his relationship with his uncle, nicknamed Omar, was less clear. 
 
 In November 2011, a White House spokesman said he had no record of the two ever meeting. The Washington Post had also reported that scholars believed the two had never met. 
 
 The White House never moved to correct the record, until the president’s famously private uncle took the witness stand in Boston immigration court two days ago. 
 
 Onyango Obama, now a 69-year-old liquor store manager in Framingham, said he had helped numerous students and had relatives in the United States, including his nephew, Barack Obama. 
 
 He said the president had stayed with him at his Cambridge apartment for three weeks when he came to attend Harvard Law School in the 1980s. 
 
 “It’s a good thing to let your nephew stay with you,” he said after the hearing, adding that in his family, “your brother’s kids are your kids as well.” 
 
 The president’s father, Barack Obama Sr., had helped Onyango Obama come to America in 1963 to attend an elite boys’ school in Cambridge. But Obama testified that he could not afford the tuition after the first year and graduated instead from public school in Cambridge. He said he went on to earn a degree in philosophy from Boston University, but the university would not confirm that. 
 
 On Tuesday, immigration Judge Leonard I. Shapiro granted Obama legal residency based on what he said was his good moral character and a section of federal law that allows him to get a green card because he arrived before 1972. 
 
 The president’s father, Barack Obama Sr., and his family were rarely in the president’s life. Obama Sr. died in a car crash in 1982. The president was raised by his mother’s family.