Source: Multi-News

Music Shortcuts Need some pain relief? Try a dose of Robbie Williams or Elton John Music can soothe away your pain, says a new survey, with Simon and Garfunkel's Bridge Over Troubled Water narrowly beating Robbie and Elton to the top of the pain-relieving pops Elton John … better for pain than ibuprofen? Photograph: Jean-Sebastien Evrard/AFP/Getty Images 
 
 As soppy Guardian types who like to blub at music know, music can mend a broken heart or comfort us through the darkest torments of the mind. It can also, according to a survey by Lloyds Pharmacy, help if someone stamps on your toe. 
 
 Apparently, 40% of people who suffered from persistent pain reported that music helped to relieve symptoms – with Simon and Garfunkel's Bridge Over Troubled Water, Robbie Williams's Angels and Elton John's Candle in the Wind among the songs they found most soothing. This slightly contradicts my own survey, which found that 100% of all respondents (sample size: one) thought Candle in the Wind induced chronic pain, but there you go. 
 
 Young people got the most help from music (66%) and although we should be cautious about trusting the kind of freak who reaches for Robbie Williams in a time of crisis, this does at least explain why pop music is the favoured genre of pain-alleviating music (classical, then rock/indie follow close behind). So what is it about the pop songs that seems to relieve pain? A "soothing", laidback vibe seems to be important in view of the songs listed as potential rivals to ibuprofen: the Commodores' Easy and Fleetwood Mac's instrumental Albatross were both on the list, whereas the back catalogues of Dying Fetus and Goatwhore were conspicous by their absence. 
 
 Reading this on mobile? Click here to view the video 
 
 I originally assumed that lyrical themes about healing and overcoming difficulty would be important provided they didn't mention pain or hurt itself – after all, it would be hard to take your mind off that gammy knee with the chorus to REM's Everybody Hurts blaring away in the background. However, this doesn't seem to be the case: Bridge Over Troubled Water mentions "pain is all around", and Angels refers to pain walking "down a one-way street". Easy goes further, opening with the line: "Know it sounds funny but I just can't stand the pain." 
 
 Really, distraction seems to be the central concept. Any pastime could make a difference, but it makes sense that music – where you channel your thoughts and emotions into the experience – would be especially helpful. 
 
 Andrew Mawhinney of Lloyds Pharmacy says it is now trialling the use of music at some of its pharmacies. So next time you say you need something for a sore back and the pharmacist starts cranking out Robbie Williams, you'll know who to blame. ||||| Four in ten people living with persistent pain (41 per cent) told researchers their favourite songs helped them relax and feel better. 
 
 Pop music was found to be the most effective for 21 per cent of patients, followed by classical (17 per cent) and rock or indie (16 per cent). 
 
 The most effective songs were "Bridge Over Troubled Water" by Simon and Garfunkel, "Angels" by Robbie Williams, and "Albatross" by Fleetwood Mac. 
 
 These were followed by "Candle in the Wind" by Elton John, and "Easy" by "The Commodores". 
 
 Now LloydsPharmacy - which commissioned the study of 1,500 people - is piloting the recommendations at selected stores across the UK. 
 
 This includes Selfridges, in Oxford Street, central London; Jubilee Crescent, Coventry; Barton Hill Road, Torquay; and Fallowfield, Manchester. 
 
 Around ten million people in the country suffer pain most days, including back and neck pain, arthritis, joint pain, and headaches or migraines. 
 
 Music has the biggest impact on younger people, with 66 per cent of those aged 16 to 24 claiming it helps with their pain management. 
 
 Pharmacist Andrew Mawhinney, from LloydsPharmacy, said: "There are lots of different ways of managing pain, not only with medicines but also with lifestyle changes such as moderate exercise and relaxation. 
 
 "After speaking to many people who are living with pain we were interested to learn just how many found music beneficial, which is why we're now trialing the use of music within our pain service in some of our pharmacies." 
 
 David Bradshaw, a Research Assistant Professor at The University of Utah Pain Management Centre, said: "People in pain should try to find some activity to get fully engaged in. 
 
 "Listening to favourite music is excellent for that because it can involve both thoughts and feelings. 
 
 "No matter how anxious you may feel, if you can get absorbed in the music this can help with your pain. 
 
 "Choose music you like and know well, humming or singing along can help you engage in listening and distract you from your pain." 
 
 Of those who listen to music to help with their pain, one third (33 per cent) do so as "often as possible" and 40 per cent chose to listen in the evenings.