Source: Multi-News

Tai Lopez is the best example of the glowing 67 Steps reviews. This is why the program is so successful. Tai Lopez leads by example. 
 
 If you have no idea how the program can help you, 67 Steps reviews are the best way to get started. Don’t just dive in to buy the world-famous Tai Lopez lecture series. Like buying clothes or shoes, go window shopping first to find the best option for you to break down Tai Lopez’s success principles. 
 
 Of course, 67 Steps reviews of the Tai Lopez opus are free. But to get your hands on the real meat of the actual program, you have to pay USD $67 on a monthly basis. According to most 67 Steps reviews, such a financial investment is worth it. 
 
 However, if you’re a struggling student or unemployed, you might not be willing to commit to the Tai Lopez lecture series just yet–maybe later. For the time being, the good news is, 67 Steps reviews are all available for free online especially on YouTube. And if you start this way, chances are, you will be able to learn a lot more than diving straight into all the paid Tai Lopez videos. 
 
 To illustrate, the Tai Lopez work can be easily broken down into 67 success principles. Surely, 67 Steps reviews are enough to reveal what all the steps are, the first 10 of which are as follows: 
 
 1) Self investment 
 
 2) Adapt 
 
 3) Be humble 
 
 4) You need a trainer 
 
 5) Surround yourself with positive people 
 
 6) Hard work is the only guarantee of success 
 
 7) Mental trap is the worst trap 
 
 8) Integrate your life (friends, home, work, exercise) 
 
 9) Learn from the experience of others 
 
 10) Don’t be onion-skinned 
 
 As 67 Steps reviews will tell you, there are 57 more steps to follow where each step can be a one-hour video. Tai Lopez patterned the number of lessons to the time it takes the average human being to reinvent himself or herself. If you still don’t get the picture, here it is in a nutshell. 
 
 It won’t be enough just to pay your monthly dues and watch all 67 videos. You need to apply yourself to all the Tai Lopez principles. Again, 67 Steps reviews can be a tremendous help with putting all the principles to work for you to get you all prepared for the real deal. 
 
 So for all the lazy people out there, 67 Steps reviews will be the first to tell you that if you don’t learn to apply all the principles laid out by Tai Lopez, completing the training modules would be utterly useless. For the Tai Lopez videos to really make a difference in your life, you need to treat them like you would a new fitness routine. Like Tai Lopez himself, you need to walk the talk. 
 
 As many 67 Steps reviews attest, Tai Lopez did not become rich overnight if he did not put all 67 principles of success to work for him. His success formula is based on years of poring through all books written by geniuses, visionary entrepreneurs, spiritual leaders, and motivational speakers. An alternative to mimicking the Tai Lopez success principles is to get your hands on all the books that he has read. 
 
 So in effect, Tai Lopez is saving you time and money by doing all the research himself. He has condensed all the gems of wisdom from the greatest thinkers of the human species. In addition, he gives precious examples of how the success principles he has unearthed work for him in real life. 
 
 These are the value-added dimensions of Tai Lopez’s lifelong struggle to get ahead of the pack by distilling the laws of success with the stroke of his own genius. Of course, with 67 Steps reviews now all over the Internet, a new avenue of learning has sprung up as well. For even if you spend your time on just the reviews themselves, you can already cover a great deal to put yourself on the path of success. 
 
 One of these 67 Steps reviews tries to sweeten the deal by offering study notes as well as giving access to avenues for helping sharpen your speed reading in case you’re not up to speed yet. Surely, Tai Lopez would have anticipated the outpouring of support as well as third-party enhancements from his avowed followers. As such, these 67 Steps reviews are not acting as copycats. 
 
 Rule No. 8, Integrate Your Life is the best demonstration that Tai Lopez’s take on the success principles of gurus, famous psychologists, positive thinkers, and management experts is best taken as a combo. No doubt, many more 67 Steps reviews are coming your way courtesy of the information superhighway. Having fun with them merely demonstrates the principle that all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. And that goes for Jill as well. ||||| By Daryn Kagan , Contributing Writer 
 
 About five months ago, Ryan Garcia’s world changed forever. 
 
 He and his wife, Lindsey, became first-time parents to Isla Quinn. 
 
 “She’s gorgeous!” he gushed to me the other day. 
 
 So what’s the big deal, you might ask? Millions of men become fathers every year. Ah, but this new dad has let the love for his daughter inspire a revolution. A kindness revolution. 
 
 “I was sitting on my couch at the end of the year,” he remembers, “thinking about New Year’s resolutions. Should I try to lose weight? Do something else predictable?” 
 
 He looked over at his sweet baby girl and inspiration hit him. “I decided I wanted to do something that would inspire her in the future. I wanted to be a better person.” 
 
 That’s how 2012 became his year of random acts of kindness. Each day for this calendar year, he’s committed to doing something nice for someone else. Sometimes, it’s for people he knows. 
 
 “I tracked down my sixth-grade teacher, Mr. Plecas,” he said, “and wrote him a letter thanking him for being my favorite teacher ever. He had a way of making learning fun. I’ll never forget him, and he needed to know that.” 
 
 Ryan has also sent a letter to a family who lost their son while he was serving in Afghanistan. “I wanted to send my condolences and thank them for everything their family has sacrificed, he explained. 
 
 There have been funny days, too. Like the time he made a point to compliment 25 total strangers. That was as great as the day he stood on the corner and offered free hugs. 
 
 If it sounds like quite the journey, it is. Ryan is sharing his kind acts with the world on this blog, 366randomacts.org (online at 366randomacts.org). He invites you to follow along. You can also find him on Facebook and Twitter. In fact, for every “like” and “follower” he gets, he’s donating a dime to charity. 
 
 This giving thing has a way of growing. Ryan figures it’s the least he can do. “I never meant to do any of this for me,” he says. “I just can’t believe how much I’m getting out of it. The little bit of kindness I put out seems to multiply the way it comes back to me.” 
 
 “And what about Baby Isla?” I ask. “She’s too young to appreciate her dad doing any of this.” 
 
 “That’s the main reason I’m doing the blog,” he says. “When she’s old enough, she’ll see all the stories, photos and videos. She’ll see how she inspired one man to become a better person.” 
 
 This kindness streak is such a fun ride, Ryan is suggesting you try it out for yourself. 
 
 “You know what people will say to that,” I offer, “it’s nice for this guy, but I’m way too busy to fit all this in.” 
 
 “No one is busier than I am,” he counters. “I’ve got a newborn, a demanding full-time job, groups I belong to, and I work out. I’ve found out that being nice doesn’t take extra time.” 
 
 So are you in? If your ride is anything like Ryan’s, sounds like putting a little kindness out there will take you places you never imagined. 
 
 Daryn Kagan is the creator of DarynKagan.com. She is the author of “What’s Possible! 50 True Stories of People Who Dared To Dream They Could Make a Difference.”