Source: Multi-News

Kim Jong-un saw the opportunity for maximum mischief offered by the most auspicious date in US history to launch a missile, literally and verbally 
 
 It is fair to say that the reporter tasked with working Kim Jong-un’s comments into North Korea’s latest statement on Tuesday’s intercontinental ballistic missile test did their job with even more relish than usual. 
 
 As taunts go, Kim’s comments, carried by the state KCNA news agency, raised the insult index several notches from Donald Trump’s suggestion a day earlier that his North Korean counterpart find a more productive use of his time than developing a nuclear deterrent. 
 
 North Korea missile test a 'new threat to world', says US amid show of military force Read more 
 
 The international response to the launch will only have inspired Kim to wring every last drop of propaganda value from the wave of opprobrium emanating from the White House and the Pentagon. 
 
 His response was straight from the North Korean propaganda playbook – designed to both grab the world’s attention and remind his domestic audience that, five-and-a-half years after his coronation following the sudden death of his father, Kim Jong-il, he has dramatically strengthened his country’s hand. 
 
 While Trump’s secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, attempted to galvanise world opinion, the KCNA’s description of Kim “feasting his eyes” on the ICBM and breaking into a “broad smile” – complete with photos of him punching the air in the company of delirious generals – would not have been out of place had he been attending an inter-Korean football match, with the North 3-0 up with only minutes on the clock. 
 
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest North Korean leader Kim Jong-un reacts during the test-fire of intercontinental ballistic missile. Photograph: KCNA/Reuters 
 
 Just as significant anniversaries in the North Korean calendar provide opportunities for the Kim dynasty to burnish its reputation at home, Kim was canny enough to spy the opportunity for maximum mischief offered by the most auspicious date in US history. 
 
 According to KCNA, he described the ICBM as a gift for the “American bastards” as they celebrated the anniversary of their country’s independence. Kim did not stop there, blithely urging his nuclear scientists to “frequently send big and small ‘gift packages’ to the Yankees” in the form of yet more missile and nuclear tests. 
 
 After inspecting the Hwasong-14 missile, he “expressed satisfaction, saying it looked as handsome as a good-looking boy and was well made”. 
 
 This, of course, was the potentially game-changing development in North Korea’s brinkmanship with the US that Trump vowed would never happen. 
 
 But with a succession of high-level – and occasionally brutal – purges of would-be challengers at home, experts say Kim is now more closely associated with North Korean military might than his father or grandfather, the country’s founder Kim Il-sung. 
 
 “Kim Jong-il’s legacy was mixed – he let the army run the country for 10 years because he was afraid of a coup,” said Robert Kelly, a North Korea expert at Pusan National University. “Kim Jong-un has tied himself to the success of the nuclear programme, which is why denuclearisation is not going to happen. 
 
 Trump’s public comments on North Korea had played into the stereotype of Americans propagated by the state’s media. 
 
 'Guest workers': The North Korean expats forced to feed the regime Read more 
 
 “The US is central to North Korean propaganda, so when Trump talks about sending an armada to the Korean peninsula, or bombing North Korea, that plays into their hands.” 
 
 Nicholas Smith, a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Canterbury in New Zealand, believes that Kim’s rhetoric and actions are “a carefully crafted strategy of brinkmanship, designed mostly for maintaining his domestic grip on power”. 
 
 
 
 “The biggest challenge in his position as supreme leader – one all autocrats face – is how to maintain his authoritarian rule,” Smith wrote in an opinion piece for the Conversation. 
 
 
 
 “Kim Jong-un, like his father Kim Jong-il, has been able to pursue this strategy of brinkmanship with great success, at least for domestic purposes. This is mainly because despite all the international repercussions to date – ostracism, sanctions, and threats of intervention – China has been willing to prop up North Korea.” 
 
 The retaliatory launch of ballistic missiles by US and South Korean forces on Wednesday morning will not only have reminded remind Kim of the military might of his enemies, but reinforced a tenet of Kim dynasty propaganda: that North Korea is surrounded by hostile forces intent on its eradication. 
 
 “Kim Jong-un loves this, because it reinforces the image of North Korea standing up to a big, bullying imperialist,” Kelly said. “It fits exactly with the way North Korea wants to be portrayed, rather than the rogue, gangster state that it really is.” 
 
 “It would help if Trump backed away a little. His childish, personalised tweets bring the US down to the level of the North Koreans, and we know from the racist and sexist things it said about Barack Obama and Park Geun-hye that you are never going to win a mud-slinging contest with the KCNA.” 
 
 No one knows if Kim ever received the copy of Trump’s Art of the Deal that Dennis Rodman presented to the North Korean sports minister during his recent visit to Pyongyang. If the deal in question is how to wrong-foot a far more powerful nemesis, then he can probably live without the advice. 
 
 Having thrust his country to the top of the US’s foreign policy “to do” list and cemented his domestic image as all that stands between North Korea and US aggression, round one of the post-ICBM era must surely go to Kim. In Trump’s words: a pretty smart cookie indeed. 
 
 ||||| A public TV screen broadcasts a local TV news showing what was said to be the launch of a Hwasong-14 intercontinental ballistic missile, ICBM, aired by North Korea's KRT on July 4, 2017, in Tokyo Wednesday,... (Associated Press) 
 
 SEOUL, South Korea (AP) — North Korea's leader Kim Jong Un vowed his nation would "demonstrate its mettle to the U.S." and never put its weapons programs up for negotiations a day after test-launching its first intercontinental ballistic missile. The hard line suggests more tests are being prepared as the country tries to perfect a nuclear missile capable of striking anywhere in the United States. 
 
 Tuesday's ICBM launch, confirmed later by U.S. and South Korean officials, is a milestone in Pyongyang's efforts to develop long-range nuclear-armed missiles. The North isn't there yet — some analysts suggest it will take several more years to perfect such an arsenal, and many more tests — but a successful launch of an ICBM has long been seen as a red line, after which it would only be a matter of time — if the country isn't stopped. 
 
 Worry spread in Washington and at the United Nations, where the United States, Japan and South Korea requested a U.N. Security Council emergency session, to be held later Wednesday. U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said the U.S. response would include "stronger measures to hold the DPRK accountable," using an acronym for the nation's formal name, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 
 
 The uproar only seemed to inspire the North, whose propaganda machine rarely fails to aggrandize its leader and its military or to thumb its nose at rivals Seoul and Washington. 
 
 A report in its state media Wednesday described leader Kim as "feasting his eyes" on the ICBM, which was said to be capable of carrying a large nuclear warhead, before its launch. "With a broad smile on his face," Kim urged his scientists to "frequently send big and small 'gift packages' to the Yankees," an apparent reference to continuing the stream of nuclear and missile tests Kim has ordered since taking power in late 2011. 
 
 The North was also pleased that its test came as Americans celebrated Independence Day. Kim, the state media report said, told "scientists and technicians that the U.S. would be displeased to witness the DPRK's strategic option as it was given a 'package of gifts' incurring its disfavor by the DPRK on its 'Independence Day.'" The North has a history of conducting weapons test on or around July 4. 
 
 Kim reportedly "stressed that the protracted showdown with the U.S. imperialists has reached its final phase and it is the time for the DPRK to demonstrate its mettle to the U.S., which is testing its will in defiance of its warning." 
 
 The test, North Korea's most successful yet, is a direct rebuke to President Donald Trump's earlier declaration that such a test "won't happen!" 
 
 A U.S. scientist analyzing the height and distance of the launch said the missile could potentially reach Alaska. 
 
 North Korea's Academy of Defense Science, in a bit of hyperbole, said the test of what it called the Hwasong-14 marked the "final step" in creating a "confident and powerful nuclear state that can strike anywhere on Earth." 
 
 South Korea's Defense Ministry, in a report to lawmakers, tentatively concluded that North Korea test-fired a "new missile with an ICBM-class range" of more than 5,500 kilometers. But the ministry said it's not certain if the test was successful because Seoul couldn't verify if the North has mastered re-entry technology for an ICBM. The ministry said North Korea may now conduct a nuclear test with "boosted explosive power" to show off a warhead to be mounted on a missile. 
 
 The launch sends a political warning to Washington and its chief Asian allies, Seoul and Tokyo, while also allowing North Korean scientists a chance to perfect their still-incomplete nuclear missile program. It came days after the first face-to-face meeting between Trump and Moon and ahead of a summit of the world's richest economies. 
 
 On Wednesday, U.S. and South Korean troops, in response to the ICBM launch, engineered a show of force for Pyongyang, with soldiers from the allies firing "deep strike" precision missiles into South Korean territorial waters. South Korean President Moon Jae-in ordered the drills arranged with the United States to show "North Korea our firm combined missile response posture," his office said. 
 
 Hamish de Bretton-Gordon, a former commanding officer of the British Armed Forces Joint Chemical Biological Radiological Nuclear Regiment, said that "in capability of missile terms and delivery, it is a major step up and they seem to be making progress week-on-week." He added, however, that "actually marrying the warhead to the missile is probably the biggest challenge, which they appear not to have progressed on." 
 
 North Korea has a reliable arsenal of shorter-range missiles and is thought to have a small number of atomic bombs, but is still trying to perfect its longer-range missiles. Some outside civilian experts believe the North has the technology to mount warheads on shorter-range Rodong and Scud missiles that can strike South Korea and Japan, two key U.S. allies where about 80,000 American troops are stationed. But it's unclear if it has mastered the technology needed to build an atomic bomb that can fit on a long-range missile. 
 
 Soon after the launch, Trump responded on Twitter: "North Korea has just launched another missile. Does this guy have anything better to do with his life? Hard to believe that South Korea and Japan will put up with this much longer. Perhaps China will put a heavy move on North Korea and end this nonsense once and for all!" 
 
 "This guy" presumably refers to Kim. China is North Korea's economic lifeline and only major ally, and the Trump administration is pushing Beijing to do more to push the North toward disarmament. 
 
 After North Korea claimed earlier this year it was close to an ICBM test launch, Trump took to Twitter and said, "It won't happen!" 
 
 North Korea says it needs nuclear weapons and powerful missiles to cope with what it calls rising U.S. military threats. 
 
 Regional disarmament talks on North Korea's nuclear program have been deadlocked since 2009, when the North pulled out of the negotiations to protest international condemnation over a long-range rocket launch. 
 
 The missile test could invite a new round of international sanctions, but North Korea is already one of the most sanctioned countries on Earth. 
 
 Last year, North Korea conducted its fourth and fifth atomic bomb tests and claimed a series of technical breakthroughs in its efforts to develop long-range nuclear missiles. The fifth nuclear test in September was the North's most powerful atomic detonation to date. 
 
 The Korean Peninsula has been divided since the end of World War II. Almost 30,000 U.S. troops are stationed in South Korea. ||||| "Even if you cancel most of the trade between China and North Korea, I think Kim Jong Un would still be determined to do these nuclear activities," said Shi Yinhong, an international relations professor at People's University in Beijing. "I think the problem from China's perspective is quite serious. And the issue is that China still can't find a way out of this predicament." ||||| UNITED NATIONS (Reuters) - The United States cautioned on Wednesday it was ready to use force if need be to stop North Korea’s nuclear missile program but said it preferred global diplomatic action against Pyongyang for defying world powers by test launching a ballistic missile that could hit Alaska. 
 
 U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley told a meeting of the U.N. Security Council that North Korea’s actions were “quickly closing off the possibility of a diplomatic solution” and the United States was prepared to defend itself and its allies. 
 
 “One of our capabilities lies with our considerable military forces. We will use them if we must, but we prefer not to have to go in that direction,” Haley said. She urged China, North Korea’s only major ally, to do more to rein in Pyongyang. 
 
 Speaking with his Japanese counterpart on Wednesday, U.S. Defense Secretary James Mattis underscored the “ironclad commitment” of the United States to defending Japan and providing “extended deterrence using the full range of U.S. capabilities,” Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White said in a statement. 
 
 Mattis’ assurances to Japanese Defense Minister Tomomi Inada came during a phone call to discuss the North Korean test, the statement said. 
 
 Taking a major step in its missile program, North Korea on Tuesday test launched an intercontinental ballistic missile that some experts believe has the range to reach the U.S. states of Alaska and Hawaii and perhaps the U.S. Pacific Northwest. 
 
 North Korea says the missile could carry a large nuclear warhead. 
 
 The missile test is a direct challenge to U.S. President Donald Trump, who has vowed to prevent North Korea from being able to hit the United States with a nuclear missile. 
 
 He has frequently urged China to press the isolated country’s leadership to give up its nuclear program. 
 
 Haley said the United States would propose new U.N. sanctions on North Korea in coming days and warned that 
 
 if Russia and China did not support the move, then “we will go our own path.” 
 
 She did not give details on what sanctions would be proposed, but outlined possible options. 
 
 “The international community can cut off the major sources of hard currency to the North Korean regime. We can restrict the flow of oil to their military and their weapons programs. We can increase air and maritime restrictions. We can hold senior regime officials accountable,” Haley said. 
 
 Diplomats say Beijing has not been fully enforcing existing international sanctions on its neighbor and has resisted tougher measures, such as an oil embargo, bans on the North Korean airline and guest workers, and measures against Chinese banks and other firms doing business with the North. 
 
 “Much of the burden of enforcing U.N. sanctions rests with China,” Haley said. 
 
 The United States might seek to take unilateral action and sanction more Chinese companies that do business with North Korea, especially banks, U.S. officials have said. 
 
 China’s U.N. ambassador, Liu Jieyi, told the Security Council meeting that the missile launch was a “flagrant violation” of U.N. resolutions and “unacceptable.” 
 
 “We call on all the parties concerned to exercise restraint, avoid provocative actions and belligerent rhetoric, demonstrate the will for unconditional dialogue and work actively together to defuse the tension,” Liu said. 
 
 TENSIONS WITH U.S. 
 
 The United States has remained technically at war with North Korea since the 1950-53 Korean conflict ended in an armistice rather than a peace treaty and the past six decades have been punctuated by periodic rises in antagonism and rhetoric that have always stopped short of a resumption of active hostilities. 
 
 North Korean leader Kim Jong Un looks on during the test-launch of the intercontinental ballistic missile Hwasong-14 in this undated photo released by North Korea's Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) in Pyongyang July 5, 2017. KCNA/via REUTERS 
 
 Tensions have risen sharply after North Korea conducted two nuclear weapons tests last year and carried out a steady stream of ballistic missile tests 
 
 North Korean leader Kim Jong Un said the ICBM test completed his country’s strategic weapons capability that includes atomic and hydrogen bombs, the state KCNA news agency said. 
 
 Pyongyang will not negotiate with the United States to give up those weapons until Washington abandons its hostile policy against the North, KCNA quoted Kim as saying. 
 
 “He, with a broad smile on his face, told officials, scientists and technicians that the U.S. would be displeased ... as it was given a ‘package of gifts’ on its ‘Independence Day,’” KCNA said, referring to the missile launch on July 4. 
 
 Trump and other leaders from the Group of 20 nations meeting in Germany this week are due to discuss steps to rein in North Korea’s weapons program, which it has pursued in defiance of Security Council sanctions. 
 
 Russia’s deputy U.N. envoy said on Wednesday that military force should not be considered against North Korea and called for a halt to the deployment of a U.S. missile defense system in South Korea. 
 
 He also said that attempts to strangle North Korea economically were “unacceptable” and that sanctions would not resolve the issue. 
 
 The U.S. military assured Americans that it was capable of defending the United States against a North Korean ICBM. 
 
 Pentagon spokesman Navy Captain Jeff Davis noted a successful test last month in which a U.S.-based missile interceptor knocked down a simulated incoming North Korean ICBM. 
 
 “So we do have confidence in our ability to defend against the limited threat, the nascent threat that is there,” he told reporters. He acknowledged though that previous U.S. missile defense tests had shown “mixed results.” 
 
 The North Korean launch this week was both earlier and “far more successful than expected,” said U.S.-based missile expert John Schilling, a contributor to Washington-based North Korea monitoring project 38 North. 
 
 Slideshow (18 Images) 
 
 It would now probably only be a year or two before a North Korean ICBM achieved “minimal operational capability,” he added. 
 
 Schilling said the U.S. national missile defense system was “only minimally operational” and would take more than two years to upgrade to provide more reliable defense. ||||| Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Missiles fired during US-South Korea drills serve as warning to North Korea 
 
 The US and South Korea have held a ballistic missile drill, after North Korea tested a long-range missile experts believe may reach Alaska. 
 
 Self-restraint was "all that separated armistice and war" and could be changed at any time, the two allies said. 
 
 It would be a "grave mistake" for the North to think otherwise, they said. 
 
 China and Russia have urged both sides to stop flexing their military muscle and said they opposed any attempts at regime change in North Korea. 
 
 Meanwhile US President Donald Trump questioned Beijing's commitment to countering North Korea's nuclear threat, apparently citing China's first-quarter trade figures. 
 
 "Trade between China and North Korea grew almost 40 pct in the first quarter. So much for China working with us - but we had to give it a try!" he tweeted. 
 
 The missile launch, the latest in a series of tests, was in defiance of a ban by the United Nations Security Council (UNSC). 
 
 The US has asked for an urgent meeting of the UNSC to discuss the issue. A closed-door session of the 15-member body will take place later on Wednesday. 
 
 Pyongyang claimed on Tuesday to have successfully tested an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM). 
 
 However, most experts believe that the North does not yet have long-range nuclear weapon capabilities. 
 
 The two Koreas are technically still at war as the 1950-1953 Korean War ended in an armistice. 
 
 How have the US and South Korea responded? 
 
 The allies conducted a ballistic missile fire exercise in the Sea of Japan. 
 
 South Korean President Moon Jae-in said the allies needed to demonstrate their missile defence posture "with action, not just a statement", his office said. 
 
 Meanwhile, a joint statement by Gen Vincent Brooks, commander of US forces Korea, and South Korean Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen Lee Sun-jin said the allies were maintaining patience and self-restraint, but this could change. 
 
 "We are able to change our choice when so ordered by our alliance's national leaders. It would be a grave mistake for anyone to believe anything to the contrary," it said. 
 
 Earlier, US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson called North Korea's move a "new escalation of the threat" and warned that Washington "will never accept a nuclear-armed North Korea". 
 
 Mr Tillerson said "global action is required to stop a global threat" and warned that any nation that provided economic or military benefits to the North, or failed to fully implement UN Security Council resolutions, was "aiding and abetting a dangerous regime". 
 
 What is an ICBM? 
 
 A long-range missile usually designed to carry a nuclear warhead 
 
 The minimum range is 5,500km (3,400 miles), although most fly about 10,000km or more 
 
 Pyongyang has previously displayed two types of ICBMs: the KN-08, with a range of 11,500km, and the KN-14, with a range of 10,000km, but before 4 July had not claimed to have flight tested an ICBM. It is not clear what differentiates the Hwasong-14 
 
 North Korea's missile programme 
 
 What has North Korea said? 
 
 State news agency KCNA quoted leader Kim Jong-un as saying the test was a "gift" to the Americans on their independence day. 
 
 The report warned of the possibility of more tests, saying he ordered officials to "frequently send big and small 'gift packages' to the Yankees". 
 
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "One expert says the missile could reach Alaska" 
 
 Pyongyang said earlier the Hwasong-14 intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) had reached an altitude of 2,802km (1,731 miles) and flew 933km for 39 minutes before hitting a target in the sea. 
 
 North Korea, it said, was now "a full-fledged nuclear power that has been possessed of the most powerful inter-continental ballistic rocket capable of hitting any part of the world". 
 
 Does North Korea really have a long-range weapon now? 
 
 Some experts believe that Tuesday's test proves that it has a missile that could travel across the globe and reach Alaska. 
 
 Physicist David Wright said it could reach a maximum range of about 6,700km on a standard trajectory, while South Korea's defence ministry on Wednesday put the range between 7,000 and 8,000km. 
 
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption North Korean state TV announces "successful" missile test 
 
 But whether that missile could deliver a warhead is still a question. 
 
 Pyongyang claimed the rocket carried a "heavy warhead" and that it "accurately hit the targeted waters without any structural breakdown". 
 
 South Korea said there was no evidence proving the missile could withstand high temperatures and successfully re-enter the atmosphere, reported Yonhap news agency. 
 
 Experts believe Pyongyang does not yet have the capability to miniaturise a nuclear warhead, fit it onto a long-range missile, and ensure it is protected until delivery to the target. 
 
 They say many of North Korea's missiles cannot accurately hit targets. 
 
 But others believe that at the rate it is going, Pyongyang may overcome these challenges and develop a nuclear weapon that could strike the US within five to 10 years. 
 
 How advanced is North Korea's nuclear programme? 
 
 What now for Washington? - Dr John Nilsson-Wright, Chatham House 
 
 Image copyright KCNA Image caption North Korean media released this image of Tuesday's missile launch 
 
 By bringing Alaska within range, the new missile test is an unambiguous game-changer in both symbolical and practical terms. 
 
 US territory (albeit separate from the contiguous continental US) is now finally within Pyongyang's cross-hairs. 
 
 For the first time a US president has to accept that the North poses a "real and present" danger not merely to north-east Asia and America's key allies - but to the US proper. 
 
 President Trump's weakness lies in having overplayed his hand too publicly and too loudly. 
 
 Read more from Dr Nilsson-Wright. 
 
 How is the rest of the world reacting? 
 
 Japan on Tuesday said "repeated provocations like this are absolutely unacceptable" and lodged a protest. 
 
 Meanwhile China - who is Pyongyang's main economic ally - and Russia have called on North Korea to suspend its ballistic missile programme in exchange for a halt on the large-scale military exercises by the US and South Korea. 
 
 Chinese President Xi Jinping and Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin, who met in Moscow on Tuesday, said "the opposing sides should start negotiations". 
 
 On Wednesday, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov added that the two countries opposed any attempts to resolve the crisis by force. 
 
 "The task of the denuclearisation of the entire Korean peninsula cannot and should not be used as a disguise for attempts to change North Korea's regime. This is our common position," he said. ||||| Where could a North Korean intercontinental ballistic missile hit? 
 
 Updated 
 
 The United States has concluded that North Korea has test launched an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM), according to a Pentagon spokeswoman. 
 
 Yesterday, an announcement on North Korean state television claimed the missile was capable of hitting "anywhere in the world". 
 
 Let's have a look at how that claim stacks up. 
 
 What we know about the test 
 
 North Korea claims it fired a Hwasong-14 missile which reached an altitude of 2,802 kilometres and flew 933km in 39 minutes. 
 
 David Wright, co-director of the Global Security Program at the US-based Union of Concerned Scientists, said the missile was fired at a "very highly lofted trajectory". 
 
 If the missile had been fired at a standard trajectory, he said it could have a maximum range of 6,700km. 
 
 So does this latest test put the United States in range? 
 
 According to Mr Wright, yes. 
 
 It is not quite enough to reach New York or Washington, but he said Alaska would be within reach. 
 
 "That range would not be enough to reach the lower 48 states or the large islands of Hawaii, but would allow it to reach all of Alaska," he said. 
 
 If North Korea's claims are to be believed, US bases in the Pacific could also be within reach. 
 
 What about Australia? 
 
 A missile range of 6,700km could also put northern Australia within reach of a strike, as the map above shows. 
 
 But Andrew Davies, a senior military capability analyst at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute, says it's "hard to say" how far a North Korean missile could actually go. 
 
 "Because of the rotation of the Earth, north-to-south trajectories aren't simply a matter of measuring the distance," he said. 
 
 "But a back-of-the-envelope calculation suggests that the NT would just be within range. Of course, future missiles could have longer ranges." 
 
 North Korea has previously pointed to America's deployment of marines to Darwin as evidence of preparation for war, saying Australia was "blindly and zealously toeing the United States line" and could be the target of a strike if this continues. 
 
 But Dr Davies rates the current threat that North Korea poses to Australia as "low". 
 
 "There's no sensible reason for North Korea to attack a US ally. The same goes for Japan and South Korea — I'm inclined to think that it's not as present a threat as many make out," he said. 
 
 Dr Davies says given the American nuclear security guarantee, North Korea would have to think twice about striking Australia. 
 
 "They would have to assume that the US wouldn't honour its undertaking," he said. 
 
 How has Australia responded? 
 
 Foreign Minister Julie Bishop called the latest test a provocative act. 
 
 "North Korea continues to threaten its neighbours while undermining regional and global security," she said in a statement. 
 
 "North Korea's long-term interests would be best served by ceasing its nuclear and missiles programs and focusing on improving the lives of its long-suffering people." 
 
 What does this test mean for closer neighbours like Japan and South Korea? 
 
 They're already in plenty of danger. 
 
 North Korea already has vast artillery capabilities pointed at South Korea's capital, Seoul. 
 
 And experts say it's developed short and medium-range missiles capable of striking the south and west of Japan. 
 
 An ICBM isn't necessary for North Korea to cause serious harm in the region and force the international community to act. 
 
 What happens now? 
 
 The ABC's North Asia correspondent Matthew Carney writes the first challenge is to verify North Korea's claim of a successful launch. 
 
 If North Korea really has developed an ICBM, he says it's a game-changer that will force President Donald Trump to act. 
 
 Reuters/ABC 
 
 Topics: government-and-politics, world-politics, korea-democratic-peoples-republic-of 
 
 First posted