Source: Multi-News

Lea Michele My New BF Is NOT A Gigolo He's A Dating Coach 
 
 Is Lea Michele's Boyfriend A Gigolo... Or A Dating Coach? 
 
 EXCLUSIVE 
 
 is standing by her man ... TMZ has learned the "" actress has decided to keep dating new BFbecause she's convinced he's no gigolo -- he just coaches 'em.Sources close to the couple tell us ... Lea was PISSED after we broke the story about-- a website that offers male "companionship" -- and confronted him about it.We're told Matthew copped to going on a few dates with female clients ... but told Lea he only did it as research -- so he could understand what the gigolos go through and coach them through it.This guy is good ... 'cause we're told Lea actually bought it, and Matt promised he'd never do it again.Our sources tell us Lea's not getting the full story ... because Paetz has had more than just "a few" dates while working as a gigolo for almost a year. ||||| Who Is Lea Michele's New Man, Matthew Paetz? 
 
 Lea Michele Talks About Peeing Her Pants 
 
 It's been nearly a year since her longtime boyfriend Cory Monteith passed away , and Lea Michele is slowly dipping her toe back into the dating waters.The Glee star, 27, has been seeing aspiring actor and model Matthew Paetz, PEOPLE has confirmed. The pair reportedly met in April on the set of her music video for "On My Way.""For a long time, Lea wasn't close to even thinking about getting into a relationship," says a Michele insider. "Cory's death was and will continue to be a struggle for her."For now, it appears that Paetz is helping Michele gradually move on. The question remains how much the actress knows about his questionable past. TMZ reports that Paetz is a former gigolo, who once operated under the alias "Christian" on the escort website Cowboys4Angels. The profile has since been removed from the site.It remains to be seen how this relationship will develop, but for her part, Michele is taking it day by day. "You can literally lose yourself if you don't actually die from it," Michele told Ellen DeGeneres last year of the grieving process. "[Cory] would want me to live my life." ||||| Lea Michele is downright smitten with the new man in her life, Matthew Paetz. 
 
 E! News has learned that the Glee star "has very strong feelings" for the aspiring actor and model and "thinks he's amazing." 
 
 While the two have only been dating for the last couple of months, we're told that Michele "feels he's a great guy." 
 
 Our insider adds, "He treats her really well, he's smart and fun. She's really happy." 
 
 Another source tells us, "This is her first real relationship since Cory. She waited a long time before getting serious again and she likes him a lot." 
 
 It appears that Paetz is the first real love interest Michele has taken to since Cory Monteith's tragic passing last summer. 
 
 The good-looking duo met on the set of the 27-year-old's music video for "On My Way." ||||| Lea Michele's New Boyfriend Former GIGOLO 
 
 Lea Michele's New Boyfriend Is A Former GIGOLO -- Slangin' Wang 
 
 EXCLUSIVE 
 
 is getting for free what other women pay good money for -- her new beau has been moonlighting as a gigolo.Lea has been quietly dating Matthew Paetz for the last few months ... she has very consciously kept the relationship on the down low.Sources close to the couple tell us ... Matthew has been a hired gun forunder the alias, Christian.Cowboys4Angels -- which offers male "companionship" to lonely women -- is featured on Showtime's, "."According to the website ... Matthew is a certified life coach, dating expert and massage therapist ... charging $350 for one hour and up to $6,000 for a weekend. For $17,500 you can get a whole week.Matthew's profile is now hidden on the site.We're told Lea and Matthew met on the set of her music video, "On My Way."Sources tell us ... Matthew most recently took on a client for a weekend during the Stagecoach music festival in April. He's gone on hiatus since he started dating Lea.Reps for both Lea and Cowboys4Angels had no comment. ||||| Add a location to your Tweets 
 
 When you tweet with a location, Twitter stores that location. You can switch location on/off before each Tweet and always have the option to delete your location history. Learn more