Source: Multi-News

Last Week Tonight is getting the last laugh in its (perhaps one-sided) feud with Mike Pence. On Sunday, John Oliver announced that staff writer _Jill Twiss and illustrator E.G. Keller had penned a picture book that purposefully apes the Pence family’s own children’s book about their bunny, Marlon Bundo. In a twist of expert trolling, Oliver just revealed that his team’s book not only beat the Pence family book on the charts, but has also sold 180,000 copies already—just days after its publication was announced. What’s more, the book isn’t even available in bookstores yet—only Amazon. 
 
 Oliver joked about those amazing results in a Tuesday night interview with Seth Meyers. The Last Week book (titled Last Week Tonight with John Oliver Presents a Day in the Life of Marlon Bundo) is a direct send-up of the Pence family’s own book, titled Marlon Bundo’s Day in the Life of the Vice President. While the Pence book is about Bundo following Vice President Mike Pence around for a day, the Oliver book is about Bundo falling in love with a boy bunny and getting married—a direct response to Pence’s anti-L.G.B.T.Q. reputation. In addition, all proceeds of the Last Week Tonight book go to non-profit organizations the Trevor Project and AIDs United. 
 
 While Oliver and his team probably hoped that their creation would beat the Pence book in sales, they couldn’t have predicted the book shooting all the way up the Amazon charts, beating out heavy titles like James Comey’s not-yet published A Higher Loyalty. 
 
 “At that point, it’s getting ridiculous,” Oliver told Meyers with a laugh. “It sold 180,000 copies so far, which is definitely more than we were prepared for.” 
 
 “You made the terrible mistake of giving the money away,” Meyers replied. 
 
 “I’m sure HBO will find it absolutely hilarious they’re getting no money out of this,” Oliver agreed. Though the first printing has already sold out, Oliver assured viewers that more are being printed, and that the book will soon be physically available in bookstores as well. 
 
 In the interview, Meyers also informed Oliver that fans of the book have found yet another way to troll Pence and anyone else who might not be fond of the book: via Amazon reviews. Fans are apparently pre-emptively leaving one-star reviews, in an attempt to head off haters who are purposefully looking for negative remarks about the book. 
 
 “I don’t actually dislike this book at all,” one review reads, “I just wanted the upset homophobes to read my comment as they scour the one-star section for appeasement.” 
 
 “One star because I fear the writing is above President Trump’s reading level,” another review reads. “Apart from that, I’m glad I bought it, and I hope it becomes a best-seller.” 
 
 The fates heard that fan’s request loud and clear. 
 
 Get Vanity Fair’s HWD Newsletter Sign up for essential industry and award news from Hollywood. E-mail Address Subscribe ||||| March 21, 2018, 2:34 PM GMT / Updated March 21, 2018, 2:34 PM GMT / Source: Associated Press 
 
 HBO host John Oliver has trolled his way to the top. 
 
 Oliver's spoof of a new picture book by the wife and daughter of Vice President Mike Pence was No. 1 on Amazon.com and out of stock as of midday Monday. 
 
 “Marlon Bundo’s Day in the Life of a Vice President” is a tribute to the Pence family’s beloved rabbit. It was written by the vice president’s daughter, Charlotte Pence, and illustrated by his wife, Karen Pence. Oliver’s book, which he announced over the weekend, is called “Last Week Tonight with John Oliver Presents a Day in the Life of Marlon Bundo.” The story is the same, almost: This Marlon Bundo has fallen for a male bunny. 
 
 “There are a few small differences between the two books,” Oliver said on his show, noting Pence’s opposition to gay marriage and other LGBTQ rights. “This is a sweet story about Marlon Bundo falling in love.” 
 
 Vice President Mike Pence and his wife Karen Pence let children pet their family rabbit "Marlon Bundo" during and event with military families on May 9, 2017 in Washington, DC. Chip Somodevilla / Getty Images 
 
 Published by Chronicle Books, the parody was written by “Last Week” contributor Jill Twiss and illustrated by EG Keller. Proceeds are being donated to The Trevor Project, a suicide hotline for LGBTQ youth, and AIDS United. 
 
 "We couldn't be more excited to see #BetterBundoBook at the top of the @amazon best-seller list," The Trevor Project tweeted on Monday. "Thank you to everyone who is supporting our vital crisis services with this adorable children's book." 
 
 Oliver's book is not the only current best-seller inspired by the Trump administration. No. 2 on Amazon was James Comey’s “A Higher Loyalty,” the upcoming memoir by the FBI director fired last year by President Donald Trump. At No. 3 on Monday was “Russian Roulette,” in which Michael Isikoff and David Corn investigate Trump’s alleged ties to Russia. 
 
 The Pence book, meanwhile is a best-seller, too, ranked No. 11 on Amazon. 
 
 FOLLOW NBC OUT ON TWITTER, FACEBOOK AND INSTAGRAM