Source: Multi-News

A farm manager vows to take swift action after Humane Society cameras reveal pig abuse. KUSA's Nick McGurk reports. 
 
 Officials are investigating allegations of animal abuse at a Wyoming pig farm after undercover video showed workers kicking pigs and tossing and twirling piglets — incidents that even a co-owner of the farm said looked like major abuses that warranted firings. 
 
 The Wyoming Livestock Board is investigating Wyoming Premium Farms in Wheatland, Wyo., and Doug DeRouchey, a co-owner and manager of the farm, told NBC affiliate 9NEWS.com that an investigation was under way after the Humane Society of the United States released the video on Tuesday. 
 
 "There's probably possible major abuse," he said, "and that's a termination." 
 
 "We will not tolerate abuse," DeRouchey added. "It's just not tolerable. And we've had isolated incidents in the past — and we've terminated the people." 
 
 Steve Keigley, sheriff for Platte County, where the farm is located, told msnbc.com that an investigation is under way and being led by the livestock board. The Humane Society provided "quite a bit of documentation," he said, adding that any charges would probably amount to a "high misdemeanor" with a maximum of several months in county jail and a fine. 
 
 Humane Society of the United States A Wyoming Premium Farms worker twirls a piglet in a screen grab from the video taken by a Humane Society activist. 
 
 A Colorado State University animal sciences professor who reviewed the video blamed management. "That was just poorly supervised employees," Temple Grandin told 9NEWS.com. "That's the kind of stuff that goes on with bad management. I've seen it over and over again." 
 
 The Humane Society said the video was shot over 27 days last month by someone who worked there and alleged the farm was a supplier to Tyson Foods. 
 
 The food conglomerate denied a direct connection, saying in a statement that: 
 
 "Tyson Foods does not buy any of the hogs raised on this farm for our pork processing plants. "We do have a small, but separate hog buying business that buys aged sows; however, these animals are subsequently sold to other companies and are not used in Tyson's pork processing business. "We've seen the video and we are appalled by the apparent mistreatment of the animals. We do not condone for any reason this kind of mistreatment of animals shown in the video." 
 
 In response, the Humane Society noted that Tyson did not deny purchasing pigs via a company it owns. The group also presented a farm statement that shows older sows were sold to that Tyson affiliate as recently as last month. 
 
 "Despite Tyson's misleading claims, the connection between this investigation and Tyson Foods is crystal clear," Matt Prescott, food policy director for the group, told msnbc.com. 
 
 The video also shows hundreds of female pigs confined to "gestation crates" that prohibit them from turning around. Those are legal, but the Humane Society has lobbied food companies and supermarkets to stop buying pork from farms that use that system. 
 
 McDonald's, Wendy's and Burger King have said they will stop buying from such farms, the Humane Society noted, and Safeway on Monday said it would do the same. Smithfield Foods and Hormel plan to phase out the crates within five years, the group added. 
 
 More content from msnbc.com and NBC News: 
 
 Follow US News on msnbc.com on Twitter and Facebook ||||| An employee is seen kicking a pig in the video (credit: Humane Society of the United States) 
 
 WHEATLAND, Wyo. (CBS4) – Wyoming state livestock officials are looking into allegations of animal abuse at pig farm in Wheatland. 
 
 The Humane Society of the United States released undercover video they claim was taken at the farm. 
 
 The group says the video was taken last month at Wyoming Premium Farms after they received a tip from a whistleblower and sent in an undercover employee. Workers are seen pushing pigs around and one woman even bounces on the back of another. The group also says some of the pigs were abused so badly they died. 
 
 The video also shows pigs living in confined gestational cages, unable to move. 
 
 Other video shows piglets being tossed around. The video may be disturbing to watch for some people. 
 
 The Humane Society says the pig breeding facility is a pork supplier for Tyson Foods. 
 
 “The level of abuse was ruthless. As you can see in the video, workers were vicious with animals; punching them in the face, kicking them, cursing at them, jumping up and down on their broken limbs,” Paul Shapiro with the Humane Society of the United States said. “This is the type of abuse that is so extreme that most people would be appalled to bear witness to it.” 
 
 The group is demanding changes and wants charges filed. 
 
 “I would anticipate there might be charges,” said Jimmy Siler, an investigator with the Wyoming Livestock Board. “I hope we’d have some answers in the next couple days. … It was probably not proper handling of the animals. If I’m a producer I wouldn’t want my workers handling my product that way.” 
 
 So far CBS4 has been unable to speak directly with representatives of Wyoming Premium Farms or from Tyson Foods, but both groups released the following statements on Tuesday. 
 
 The statement from Wyoming Premium Farms is as follows: 
 
 The video of a Wyoming Premium Farms sow barn posted online this morning by HSUS shows some practices that are not and will not be tolerated. The owners and managers of the farm are investigating the incidents shown in the video and wish to assure everyone we will take action to correct all problems and to deal appropriately with any employees that were involved. 
 
 I was first made aware of the situation when I was contacted on Friday by the Wyoming Livestock Board regarding a video the board had received. On Monday, I drove to Cheyenne to meet with the board and to view a video from the HSUS. Evidently, HSUS had placed an undercover spy in our workforce. 
 
 I was told that the undercover spy had pointed out certain items that she had noticed while working there to different people at the farm. However, never once did she express any concerns to me, the general manager and the person responsible for hiring her. 
 
 The video I saw at the Wyoming Livestock Board yesterday was troubling, but it did not contain some of the disturbing scenes shown in the video HSUS put online this morning. While still sitting at the Livestock Board’s conference table on Monday, I called the farm manager and asked him if he was made aware of comments from the employee we knew as Whitney Warrington. He said because she was new she always seemed to have new-person type of questions. He said he could not recall everything she said, but added he definitely would have remembered if anything about animal abuse had come out of her mouth. 
 
 After my meeting in Cheyenne, I contacted the farm managers and instructed them to conduct a meeting immediately to once again stress with our workers the importance of animal welfare. I then contacted our consulting veterinarian and asked him to join me for an unannounced herd visit. That visit occurred this morning. Our veterinarian also suggested we retain an independent 3rd party to review everything we do on our farm to give us comments and recommendations. We are doing that. 
 
 I take these allegations seriously. I am disappointed I did not hear them directly from her while she was working on our farm so we could have addressed any concerns immediately. We take the pork industry’s We Care initiative seriously and are committed to the well-being of all our animals and to the safety of our workers. 
 
 Once again, we will swiftly address any problems that are identified. 
 
 Doug DeRouchey 
 
 The statement from Tyson Foods is as follows: 
 
 Contrary to the impression left by HSUS, there is no connection between this Wyoming farm and the pork that we process. Tyson Foods does not buy any of the hogs raised on this farm for our pork processing plants. 
 
 We do have a small, but separate hog buying business that buys aged sows; however, these animals are subsequently sold to other companies and are not used in Tyson’s pork processing business. 
 
 We’ve seen the video and we are appalled by the apparent mistreatment of the animals. We do not condone for any reason this kind of mistreatment of animals shown in the video. 
 
 Virtually all of the hogs Tyson buys for our processing plants come from thousands of independent farm families who use both individual and group housing. We require all hog farmers who supply us to be certified in the pork industry’s Pork Quality Assurance Plus program, which incorporates rigid animal well-being standards and is part of the industry’s ‘We Care’ responsible pork initiative. We validate enrollment and audit conformance to these standards. Farms that do not conform will be eliminated from our supply chain. 
 
 For information on the pork industry’s ‘We Care’ responsible pork initiative, go to porkcares.com. ||||| Piglets are haphazardly swung in circles, sows are beaten, and animals squirm with untreated abscesses in new footage alleging animal abuse at a Wyoming pig breeding facility. 
 
 The Humane Society of the United States (HSUS), an animal advocacy group, hired an undercover investigator to spend the month of April 2012 working at a Wyoming Premium Farms facility in Wheatland, Wyo. 
 
 HSUS identified one pig in its video on whose back, it said, a worker sat and bounced even though the pig had a broken leg. Other animals suffered from rectal and uterine prolapses. 
 
 Wayne Pacelle, president and CEO of HSUS, described on a press call how one pig was forced to give birth on a set date. "The worker intended to stick his arm in the animal's uterus to pull out the piglets, but instead went into her anus and caused the prolapse there. This animal lived another 11 days in this condition," he said. 
 
 According to HSUS, the farm is owned by Denver-based Itoham America Inc., which HSUS says sells to Tyson Foods, the world’s second largest meat processor. Itoham America could not be reached by phone. 
 
 Last week, HSUS said, it notified local authorities of the alleged abuse and urged the Platte County sheriff’s office to pursue criminal charges. The sheriff's office did not return HuffPost's request for comment, but Pacelle said he was "very pleased with their interest and their degree of scrutiny." 
 
 Wyoming Premium Farms' website states that its facilities "consist of a breeding farm housing over 5,000 sows, a nursery and two finishers with capacity to finish all pigs, feedmill to mix all feed required and a corporate office." The farms were established in 1995 "with the purpose of producing healthy pigs in a clean environment." The company did not return requests for comment. 
 
 Tyson Foods spokesman Worth Sparkman emailed a statement to HuffPost, saying the company was "appalled" by the video and denying any connection between the Wyoming farm and the pork processed by Tyson. "Tyson Foods does not buy any of the hogs raised on this farm for our pork processing plants. We do have a small, but separate hog buying business that buys aged sows; however, these animals are subsequently sold to other companies and are not used in Tyson’s pork processing business," the statement said. 
 
 Sparkman clarified in a follow-up email: "A company that we own has purchased hogs from the farm. We will not purchase from this farm until we've had a chance to investigate." 
 
 The original statement also says that all hog suppliers selling to Tyson must be certified by the pork industry’s Pork Quality Assurance Plus program, adding, "Farms that do not conform will be eliminated from our supply chain." 
 
 In April, HSUS filed a complaint with the Federal Trade Commission, arguing that the National Pork Producers Council's public descriptions of that quality assurance program make false claims and constitute deceptive advertising. 
 
 
 
 The National Pork Producers Council hit back on its website, saying, "The FTC complaint is the latest attack by animal-rights activists on America's hog farmers, an assault that seems obviously in response to the U.S. pork industry's strident opposition to congressional legislation that would allow federal bureaucrats to tell farmers how to raise and care for their animals." 
 
 To address both the specific alleged abuse at Wyoming Premium Farms and broader issues of animal welfare, Pacelle said, the pork industry should abandon the use of gestation crates -- small enclosures in which sows are kept during pregnancy -- and local law enforcement should vigorously enforce anti-cruelty laws. 
 
 McDonald’s, Wendy’s, Safeway and Burger King have all declared a goal of ridding gestation crates from their supply chains. Smithfield Foods, Hormel and Cargill are also making efforts to lower the number of company-owned operations using the devices. According to HSUS, eight U.S. states have passed laws to phase out gestation crates. 
 
 More generally, no federal law protects farm animals from cruelty while they are on farms, and some states exempt farm animals from their anti-cruelty laws. HSUS Chief Counsel Jonathan Lovvorn told HuffPost that Wyoming's law falls somewhere in the middle among anti-cruelty statutes. "The state's anti-cruelty statute applies to all animals, which is why the HSUS has asked local law enforcement to prosecute animal cruelty," he said, adding, "What we've seen on this video is animal cruelty by virtually any state's definition -- the intentional kicking, throwing, stomping, beating of animals for the purpose of inflicting pain and suffering." 
 
 Earlier this year, HSUS filed complaints with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the FTC after another undercover investigation suggested mistreatment at a pig breeding facility linked to Walmart. In an unrelated incident this year, Whole Foods severed ties with a hatchery after Compassion Over Killing's undercover video showed alleged abuse, although the company wouldn't say whether its decision was based on the abuse allegations. 
 
 The use of such videos to reveal abuses at factory farms is threatened. In March, Iowa made it illegal to gain access to a farm facility under false pretenses, and other states have considered similar laws. 
 
 "If those laws existed [in Wyoming]," Lovvorn argued, "the cruelty at this facility would have continued forever with no public knowledge, no law enforcement and no remedial action."