Source: Multi-News

Play Facebook 
 
 Twitter 
 
 Embed Police: Fugitive killed veteran cop in Florida 0:23 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog 
 
 A veteran police officer was shot and killed — and even run over — early Sunday in Florida by a wanted man who felt like a "caged rat" and didn't want to go back to prison, officials said. 
 
 Tarpon Springs Officer Charles "Charlie K" Kondek, a father of five children and a former New York City police officer, was killed after responding to a noise complaint at about 2 a.m. ET in Pinellas County, some 30 miles from Tampa, Sheriff Bob Gualtieri told a press conference. 
 
 The noise was music blasting from the car of the alleged shooter, Marco Antonio Parilla Jr., 23. 
 
 When Parilla, who was wanted on a probation violation, saw Kondek, he allegedly fired seven rounds at the officer from a .40-caliber gun — striking Kondek in the neck just above his bullet-resistant vest. Parilla then ran over the officer as he fled the scene, Gualtieri said, adding he was arrested after a brief pursuit ending with the suspect crashing into a truck. 
 
 Kondek, 45, had requested back-up before encountering Parilla, but it's not clear why. Responders performed CPR, but Kondek was pronounced dead at a local hospital. An autopsy revealed he died from the gunshot, Gualtieri said. Parilla was arrested on one count of first-degree murder. 
 
 "His reason for shooting the officer was he 'felt like a caged rat.' Well, he's going back to prison and he can be a caged rat in prison because that's where he belongs," Gualtieri said. 
 
 Kondek had more than 17 years with the Tarpon Springs force and five with the NYPD, said Police Chief Bob Kochen. Kondek mostly worked patrol. 
 
 "It is heart-wrenching to know that we have lost our brother, but we know that he served and gave his life with honor and dignity as a hero to this community," Kochen said. "He served most of his career on the midnight shift, away from his family, allowing citizens to sleep peacefully in their bed because he faced the danger for them." 
 
 Parilla was wanted for violating his probation on two counts of possession of amphetamines. He'd gone to the address where he shot Kondek to try to confront an individual he believed who had turned him in on the probation violation, Gualtieri said. 
 
 Tarpon Springs Police Officer Charles Kondek. Tarpon Springs Police Dept. 
 
 IN-DEPTH 
 
 — Cassandra Vinograd and Elisha Fieldstadt contributed to this report. ||||| TARPON SPRINGS — A Tarpon Springs police officer with a wife and six children was shot and killed early Sunday while responding to a nuisance noise call, police said. 
 
 Officer Charles “Charlie” Kondek, 45, was shot around 2 a.m. near Glen’s Eureka Apartments by Marco Antonio Parilla Jr., 23, who was released from prison in March, said Pinellas County Sheriff Bob Gualtieri. 
 
 Parilla, who was wanted for a probation violation, had been knocking on doors in the apartment complex at 199 Grand Blvd., looking for a person who he believed got him into recent trouble with law enforcement, Gualtieri said. 
 
 A woman who Parilla arrived with in a Hyundai Elantra stayed in the car with the stereo turned up. When a resident asked her to turn down the volume, she refused and the resident called police. 
 
 When Kondek arrived, he approached the Hyundai. When Parilla saw Kondek he started firing at him with a 40-caliber handgun, Gualtieri said. 
 
 Kondek was able to return two shots, investigators said. As Parilla drove away from the scene, he backed over Kondek, investigators said. 
 
 Gualtieri said Kondek, a former New York City police officer, was killed by a gunshot that struck his neck area, just above his protective vest. Tarpon Springs police and fire rescue tried to resuscitate Kondek but he died later at Florida Hospital North Pinellas. 
 
 As Parilla fled, a man stepped out of an apartment and fired a 9 mm gun five times at the Hyundai, investigators said. That man, who thought Parilla was there to confront him, was not charged with a crime Sunday. 
 
 Parilla, who partied in Pasco County before heading south to Tarpon Springs, was arrested after he crashed the car into a pole at Athens and Cross streets and fled, deputies said. He faces first-degree murder charges. 
 
 The woman who was with Parilla has cooperated with investigators, Gualtieri said. 
 
 Parilla was not injured. 
 
 Tarpon Springs Police Chief Robert Kochen condemned Parilla on Sunday, calling him a coward. 
 
 Gualtieri didn’t hide his disgust, either. 
 
 “He knew he was a convicted felon with warrants,” Gualtieri said. “He said he felt like a caged rat. He’s going back to prison, but he didn’t have to take a cop’s life.” 
 
 During interviews with investigators, Parilla admitted shooting Kondek, according to a release from the sheriff’s office. 
 
 As he was led into the Pinellas County Jail Sunday, Parilla said that killing Kondek “was not my intention.” 
 
 The incident, from the first shot until Parilla was apprehended, took eight to 10 minutes, Gualtieri said. 
 
 Rachel Delk, a resident at Glen’s Eureka Apartments, said she was questioned by investigators for several hours after the shooting. 
 
 Delk said she heard the suspect banging on doors, including hers, in an attempt to find a person who called the police on him. 
 
 “He was mad that someone called the cops on him because he has a criminal history,” Delk said. 
 
 Parilla had lived at the apartment complex and Delk remembered him from that time, she said. 
 
 “He didn’t seem dangerous but he was unpredictable,” Delk said. 
 
 After police arrived, Delk said she heard gunshots. When they stopped, she waited a few minutes before venturing outside, she said. A group was huddled around Kondek, who was unresponsive, Delk said. 
 
 “It’s sad,” she said. 
 
 The crime scene area overlooks Spring Bayou in what is considered an affluent area of Tarpon Springs. 
 
 Evelyn Bilirakis, wife of former congressman Mike Bilirakis, lives on Springs Boulevard, across Orange Street from the scene. She said she heard the gunshots early Sunday. 
 
 “I went out on our porch upstairs but I didn’t see anything” Bilirakis said. “This is terrible. We’ve been here 15 years and there’s never been anything like this. This is a very good neighborhood.” 
 
 Kondek was the son of a retired New York City police officer and his wife works for the Pasco County Clerk of Courts, deputies said. His family lived in the Spring Hill area, Gualtieri said. 
 
 Kondek “was a wonderful man, very fair and just,” said Mary Fiouris, who owns Zorbas Nightclub with her husband Telly and has known Kondek for a few years. The nightclub on Athens Street will hold a fundraiser for the fallen officer, she said. 
 
 “This is too terrible, and right before Christmas too,” she said wiping away tears. “He was just protecting us. Why do people do these things?” 
 
 As she was closing the nightclub early Sunday, Fiouris said she saw Parilla’s white car barrel down Athens, before hitting a power pole and a white truck. 
 
 Tom Mahinis, a Tarpon Springs artist, was outside Zorbas with about 20 people and also witnessed the crash. 
 
 “He must have been doing 70 mph,” Mahinis said. “He got out of the car and I started chasing him. I didn’t know what he had done.” 
 
 At the intersection of Athens and Cross streets, police asked Mahinis where the driver was. 
 
 “I told them and then they tackled him and apprehended the man,” Mahinis said. 
 
 As the man was being led off by police, he shot “a facial expression” at Mahinis. 
 
 “I said, ‘You just bought an $80,000 truck,’” Mahinis said. 
 
 Parilla has a lengthy criminal history in Hillsborough County, including arrests for selling and possessing cocaine and marijuana, trafficking in stolen property and leaving the scene of a crash, according to arrest records. 
 
 In March, he was released from state prison after serving more than two years on a three year sentence for an array of drug charges. 
 
 Sunday’s shooting marked the first fatal shooting of a Tarpon Springs police officer in the line of duty since 1926, and the first officer killed in the line of duty since 1969, when an officer died in a traffic accident, according to Joe Voskerichian, executive director of the Gold Shield Foundation, which provides funds to families of officers killed on duty. 
 
 Another Tarpon Springs officer was shot and killed in 1921, Voskerichian said. 
 
 The Gold Shield Foundation will present Kondek’s family with a check for $5,000 immediately after arrangements are made with the sheriff’s office, said Voskerichian. If Kondek’s children are in school, the foundation will help with their education, he said. 
 
 A police cruiser wrapped in a black ribbon and covered with flowers served as a memorial parked in front of the Tarpon Springs Police Department on Sunday evening. 
 
 Rick O’Connell, a homeless man, stopped and knelt in front of the squad car. 
 
 “He was a human being,” O’Connell said. “I don’t always get along with cops, but nobody deserves to die like that.” 
 
 As O’Connell pedaled away on a bicycle, Pattie Snell, who works at a nearby Publix, draped a bouquet of flowers over the hood of the police cruiser. 
 
 Snell said two of her sons are in law enforcement, and her eldest son survived an on-the-job shooting. She said Kondek was a regular customer at Publix. 
 
 “He was very pleasant, a good guy. He would come in for subs and stuff,” Snell said. “You try and put (dangers faced by police) out of your mind. They do their jobs and protect the community.” 
 
 Her eyes began to water. 
 
 “It’s unfortunate,” she said. 
 
 Nick Ryder, a 13-year-old skateboarder, went to the police department with father Jim Ryder on Sunday to offer condolences to police. 
 
 “He was always nice to us,” Nick said of Kondek. “He said he remembered what it was like to be a kid.” 
 
 haltman@tampatrib.com 
 
 (813) 259-7629 
 
 gfox@tampatrib.com 
 
 (813) 371-1860 
 
 Editor’s note: The name of Joe Voskerichian, executive director of the Gold Shield Foundation, was spelled incorrectly in an earlier version of this story. ||||| MIAMI (AP) — A fugitive trying to evade an arrest warrant shot a Tampa-area police officer and then ran him over early Sunday, killing the officer, police said. 
 
 Flowers are placed on a police car near the scene of the shooting of Officer Charles Kondek in Tarpon Springs, Fla. on Sunday, Dec. 21, 2014. Kondek, a 17-year veteran of the local police department and... (Associated Press) 
 
 This photo provided by the Tarpon Springs Police Department shows Officer Charles Kondek. Ofc. Kondek, a 17-year veteran of the local police department and originally from New York, was shot and killed... (Associated Press) 
 
 A forensic science investigator with the Pinellas County Sheriff's Office investigates the scene where 45-year-old Tarpon Springs police officer Charles Kondek was shot and killed, Sunday, Dec. 21, 2014,... (Associated Press) 
 
 Flowers are placed on a police car near the scene of the shooting of Officer Charles Kondek in Tarpon Springs, Fla. on Sunday, Dec. 21, 2014. Kondek, a 17-year veteran of the local police department and... (Associated Press) 
 
 Marco Antonio Parilla Jr., 23, center, is escorted into the Pinellas County Jail after being arrested on suspicion of first-degree murder after a police officer was shot and killed while on duty, Sunday,... (Associated Press) 
 
 Cynthia Martinez, 23 of Tarpon Springs, leaves flowers at a memorial for a slain Tarpon Springs police officer in Tarpon Springs, Fla. on Sunday, Dec. 21, 2014. The Tarpon Springs Police Department identified... (Associated Press) 
 
 Tarpon Springs Police Department Chief Robert Kochen speaks during a news conference regarding the police shooting in Tarpon Springs, Fla. on Sunday, Dec. 21, 2014. The Tarpon Springs Police Department... (Associated Press) 
 
 Marco Antonio Parilla Jr., 23, crashed his car into a pole and another vehicle after running over Tarpon Springs officer Charles Kondek. Parilla was arrested on suspicion of first-degree murder. 
 
 The shooting did not appear to have any connection to the ambush killings of two New York police officers a day earlier. 
 
 Authorities said Kondek responded to a noise call around 2 a.m. at an apartment complex. Parilla was pounding on doors, looking for a neighbor who "dimed him out" to police, authorities said. When Parilla saw Kondek, he fired multiple rounds at the officer, striking him once above his bullet-proof vest. 
 
 "We know we have the right guy in custody," Pinellas County Sheriff Bob Gualtieri said. "This guy knew what he was doing, he killed a cop and he needs to be held accountable for that." 
 
 According to the Florida Department of Corrections, Parilla served more than two years in prison for several offenses, including drug charges, and was released in March. He was listed as a fugitive for violating his probation. It wasn't immediately clear what the violation was. 
 
 The sheriff said Parilla told investigators that when he saw the officer he "felt like a caged rat" and didn't want to return to prison. 
 
 "I apologize to the family" of the officer, Parilla told media outlets while being escorted to jail. "That was not my intention." 
 
 Condek, 45, had been with the local force for 17 years. Originally from New York, Kondek previously served on the New York City Police Department for more than five years, authorities said. 
 
 Kondek was the father of six children.