Source: Multi-News

Hayes, who has spoken frankly about growing up in public housing and being the daughter of a drug addict, acknowledged her unlikely journey and the history-making quality of her campaign. She noted that she jumped into the race “102 days ago, with no money and no network.” ||||| Tim Pawlenty stands with his wife, Mary, background left, and running mate Michelle Fischbach as he concedes his run for governor at his election night gathering at Granite City Food and Brewery, Tuesday,... (Associated Press) 
 
 ST. PAUL, Minn. (AP) — Democrats embraced diversity Tuesday in a primary night of firsts, while Republicans in Minnesota rejected a familiar face of the GOP old guard in favor of a rising newcomer aligned with President Donald Trump. 
 
 In Vermont, Democrats rallied behind the nation's first transgender nominee for governor. Minnesota Democrats backed a woman who would be the first Somali-American member of Congress. And in Connecticut, the party nominated a candidate who could become the first black woman from the state to serve in Congress. 
 
 Still, Democrats in Minnesota also backed a national party leader who is facing accusations of domestic violence. He has denied the allegations, yet they threaten to undercut enthusiasm in his state and beyond. 
 
 On the other side, Trump tightened his grip on the modern-day Republican Party as the turbulent 2018 primary season lurched toward its finale. A one-time Trump critic, former two-term Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty, lost a comeback attempt he was expected to win. 
 
 All but 10 states picked their candidates for November's general election by the time the day's final votes were counted. While the full political battlefield isn't quite set, the stakes are clear: Democrats are working to topple Republican control of Congress and governors' offices across the nation. 
 
 Four states held primaries Tuesday: Vermont, Connecticut, Minnesota and Wisconsin. Kansas' gubernatorial primary, which was held last week, was finalized when Republican Gov. Jeff Colyer conceded defeat. 
 
 In Minnesota, Republican County Commissioner Jeff Johnson defeated Pawlenty, who once called Trump "unhinged and unfit" and was hoping to regain his old post. In Wisconsin, Gov. Scott Walker, endorsed just this week by Trump, won the right to seek a third term. 
 
 The president's pick for Kansas governor, Secretary of State Kris Kobach, scored a delayed victory against Colyer, who became the first incumbent governor to fall this season. 
 
 In Vermont, Democrat Christine Hallquist won the Democratic nomination in her quest to become the nation's first transgender governor. The former chief executive of Vermont Electric Cooperative bested a field of four Democrats that included a 14-year-old. 
 
 While she made history on Tuesday, Hallquist faces a difficult path to the governor's mansion. Republican incumbent Phil Scott remains more popular with Democrats than members of his own party in the solidly liberal state. 
 
 Vermont Democrats also nominated Sen. Bernie Sanders, who hasn't ruled out a second presidential run in 2020, for a third term in the Senate. The 76-year-old democratic socialist won the Democratic nomination, but he is expected to turn it down and run as an independent. 
 
 Democrats appeared particularly motivated in Wisconsin, where eight candidates lined up for the chance to take on Walker. 
 
 Walker's strong anti-union policies made him a villain to Democrats long before Trump's rise. State schools chief Tony Evers, who has clashed with Walker at times, won the Democratic nomination and will take on Walker this fall. 
 
 Once a target of Trump criticism, Walker gained the president's endorsement in a tweet Monday night calling him "a tremendous Governor who has done incredible things for that Great State." 
 
 Trump also starred, informally at least, in Wisconsin's Senate primaries as Republicans try to deny Democratic Sen. Tammy Baldwin a second term. 
 
 Longtime state lawmaker Leah Vukmir, who was backed by House Speaker Paul Ryan, won the Republican primary, even after struggling to explain footage recently unearthed from 2016 in which she called Trump "offensive to everyone." 
 
 Tuesday's primaries served as a test of Democratic enthusiasm in the upper Midwest, a region that has long been associated with liberal politics but has been trending red. Trump won Wisconsin by less than 1 percentage point in 2016, becoming the first Republican presidential candidate to carry the state since 1984. 
 
 It was much the same in Minnesota, where Trump lost by less than 3 percentage points in a state that hasn't backed a Republican presidential contender since 1972. 
 
 Nearly twice as many Minnesota Democrats as Republicans cast ballots in their parties' respective gubernatorial primaries. 
 
 Pawlenty had been considered the heavy favorite in a two-person Republican contest for his old job. But he struggled to adapt to a GOP that had changed drastically since he left office in 2011 and flamed out early in a 2012 presidential bid. 
 
 The former two-term governor strained to live down his October 2016 comment that Trump was "unhinged and unfit for the presidency," remarks that incensed many Republican voters in Minnesota and beyond. Johnson, his underfunded opponent, circulated Pawlenty's critique far and wide, telling voters that he was a steadfast supporter of the president. 
 
 Johnson will face Democratic Rep. Tim Walz, who won a three-way race for his party's nomination. 
 
 Three Minnesota women won Senate nominations, including incumbent Democrats Amy Klobuchar and Tina Smith. 
 
 Smith, who had been appointed to replace disgraced Democrat Al Franken, will face Republican state Sen. Karin Housley, ensuring a woman will hold the seat once held by Franken, who left Congress amid allegations of sexual misconduct toward women. 
 
 Nationwide, a record number of women are running this year for governor and Congress. 
 
 Meanwhile, a new scandal threatened to dampen Democratic enthusiasm. 
 
 Rep. Keith Ellison, the Democratic National Committee's deputy chairman, captured his party's nomination in the race to become the state's attorney general. That's after Ellison's candidacy was rocked by allegations over the weekend of domestic violence amid a broader national outcry against sexual misconduct by powerful men in business, entertainment and politics. 
 
 Ellison has denied a former girlfriend's allegations that he dragged her off a bed while screaming obscenities during a 2016 relationship she said was plagued by "narcissistic abuse." 
 
 Also in Minnesota, Democrat Ilhan Omar, the nation's first Somali-American legislator, won her party's congressional primary in the race to replace Ellison. 
 
 In Connecticut, Republican businessman Bob Stefanowski emerged from a field of five Republicans seeking to replace the unpopular outgoing governor, Democrat Dan Malloy. Former gubernatorial candidate Ned Lamont won the Democratic nomination. 
 
 Connecticut Democrats picked a former teacher of the year, Jahana Hayes, to run for the seat vacated by Rep. Elizabeth Etsy, who is leaving Congress after bungling sexual abuse claims levied against a former staffer. Hayes could become the first black woman from the state to serve in Congress. 
 
 ___ 
 
 Peoples reported from Washington. Associated Press writer Scott Bauer in Madison, Wisconsin contributed to this report. ||||| Tony Evers speaks after his win in Wisconsin's Democratic gubernatorial primary election during an event at Best Western Premier Park Hotel in Madison on Tuesday. (Photo: Associated Press) 
 
 MADISON - Tony Evers won an eight-way Democratic primary Tuesday, setting up a November showdown between the state's education chief and GOP Gov. Scott Walker. 
 
 "We’re going to win because we're going to hold Scott Walker accountable for his reign of terror," Evers told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel shortly after the Associated Press called the race for him based on unofficial returns. 
 
 Walker handily won his own primary against a political unknown, Sun Prairie businessman Robert Meyer, who raised just $270 in the first half of the year. 
 
 In a string of posts on Twitter, Walker touted the state's record-low unemployment rate, his cuts to income taxes and property taxes, and his program to shore up premiums for those who buy insurance through Affordable Care Act marketplaces, 
 
 CLOSE Gov. Scott Walker will face Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Evers and U.S. Sen. Tammy Baldwin will face state Sen. Leah Vukmir. Milwaukee Journal Sentinel 
 
 "Wisconsin is working — and we are moving the state forward with our bold reforms that are having a positive impact across the state," Walker wrote. 
 
 Unemployment has hit a record low, and we’ve been below the previous record low of 3 percent for 5 straight months. More people are working in Wisconsin than ever before. — Scott Walker (@ScottWalker) August 15, 2018 
 
 The primary came a day after President Donald Trump — who at times has criticized Walker — tweeted that the Wisconsin governor "has done incredible things for that Great State" and had Trump's "complete & total Endorsement." 
 
 Scott Walker of Wisconsin is a tremendous Governor who has done incredible things for that Great State. He has my complete & total Endorsement! He brought the amazing Foxconn to Wisconsin with its 15,000 Jobs-and so much more. Vote for Scott on Tuesday in the Republican Primary! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 14, 2018 
 
 As the primary wrapped up, the general election kicked off, with the state Republican Party making plans to spend nearly $500,000 on TV and digital ads attacking Evers that will begin airing Thursday. 
 
 On Wednesday, Walker plans to visit La Crosse, Eau Claire, Schofield, Green Bay and Waukesha, while Evers will be in Madison, Appleton and Waukesha. Both are scheduled to travel the state later in the week, as well. 
 
 With Trump in the White House and liberal enthusiasm rising, Democrats view Walker as vulnerable. 
 
 Republicans see Walker as strongly positioned in part because of his huge financial advantage. At the end of July, Walker had $4.9 million in his campaign account, 31 times as much as Evers had at that point. 
 
 RELATED: It's Tony Evers vs. Scott Walker: 5 takeaways from the 2018 Wisconsin primary election 
 
 ELECTION RESULTS:Wisconsin and Milwaukee-area fall primary election 
 
 FULL COVERAGE: 2018 Wisconsin Elections 
 
 On the issues, the Democrats have been largely united, with most of them saying they would end the $4 billion taxpayer-funded incentive package for Foxconn Technology Group, legalize marijuana, expand access to health care, boost spending on roads and schools, and scale back Act 10, the 2011 law that all but eliminated collective bargaining for public workers. 
 
 Those stances put them in agreement with one another but deeply at odds with Walker, who has championed the Foxconn deal, his tax cuts and the state's economy. Walker opposes legalizing marijuana, has sought to overturn Obamacare and has fought with his fellow Republicans to prevent gas taxes from going up to fund roads. 
 
 "He's got a bad record on roads, you name it," Evers said. "I'm equally concerned that we as Democrats provide a positive vision for the future and it starts with education and it intersects with all other areas and we’re going to take it to him." 
 
 Jon Thompson, a spokesman for the Republican Governors Association, said in a statement that Democrats had chosen a "far-left, big-government politician committed to raising taxes and opposing job creation." 
 
 “As the state’s top education official, Evers has consistently failed Wisconsin students, and opposed Governor Walker’s successful efforts to spur job growth throughout the state," his statement said. 
 
 Evers established himself early on as the front-runner, though there were so many undecided voters that it seemed possible one of his challengers could overtake him. But no one else was able to consolidate support. 
 
 In a Marquette University Law School poll last month, 31% of likely Democratic voters backed Evers and 38% were undecided. 
 
 DATA ON DEMAND: Contributions to the 2018 candidates for governor 
 
 Following Evers in that poll were firefighters union President Mahlon Mitchell (6%); state Sen. Kathleen Vinehout of Alma (6%); former state Democratic Party Chairman Matt Flynn (5%); Madison Mayor Paul Soglin (4%); liberal activist Mike McCabe (3%); former state Rep. Kelda Roys of Madison (3%); and attorney Josh Pade (0%). 
 
 Since then, Evers, Flynn, Mitchell, Soglin and Roys began running ads. 
 
 Buy Photo A voter makes his way to vote at South Shore Terrace on Tuesday. (Photo: Angela Peterson/Milwaukee Journal Sentinel) 
 
 All the Democrats were expected to spend virtually all their money to get through the primary, which will widen their financial gap with Walker, at least temporarily. 
 
 Recognizing that, the Democratic Governors Association set up a plan to provide the nominee with post-primary advice and a financial network that Evers can now quickly tap. That won’t eliminate the fundraising gap, but Democrats hope it will mitigate it enough that Evers can withstand an expected avalanche of GOP ads. 
 
 "We know they are going to carpet bomb us — that is his M.O.," Evers said of Walker. "He likes to divide people." 
 
 RELATED: Dems plan to quickly pivot to general election to avoid being caught flat-footed in Wisconsin governor's race 
 
 The primary came two days after Trump put Walker and other Republicans in an awkward spot by tweeting that he thought a boycott of Milwaukee-based Harley-Davidson Inc. would be "great" because the company is moving some production overseas. 
 
 The company says it is doing so because of new European tariffs that came in response to Trump's tariffs. Trump has disputed that, saying the company would have shifted jobs overseas even without the tariffs. 
 
 Walker said Monday he opposed a Harley boycott but supported Trump's goal of eventually eliminating tariffs. The break with Trump on the boycott didn't appear to hurt his standing with Trump, who praised Walker on Twitter less than five hours later. 
 
 Evers cast Walker as beholden to Trump in his victory speech. 
 
 "Donald Trump will no longer have a doormat here in Wisconsin," Evers said. 
 
 RELATED: Scott Walker and GOP Senate candidates say they oppose a Harley boycott after avoiding the issue 
 
 Evers, first elected in 2009, was the only Democrat in the field who has held statewide office. His background in education gives him a chance to go after Walker on an issue that Democrats see as a weak spot for the governor. 
 
 His current title could cut the other way as well. Walker’s team, for instance, has noted that Evers called Walker’s last state budget “kid-friendly,” possibly limiting how effective Evers could be in arguing against Walker’s funding for schools. 
 
 Democratic candidates for Wisconsin governor: (Top row, left to right) Tony Evers, Paul Soglin, Josh Pade and Kathleen Vinehout. (Bottom row, left to right) Kelda Roys, Mike McCabe, Mahlon Mitchell and Matt Flynn. (Photo: handouts from candidates) 
 
 Flynn told Evers at a forum last week that Walker would "have you for lunch" because of his "kid-friendly" comment. 
 
 But on Tuesday, Flynn praised Evers and said he would work with him to defeat Walker. Other Democratic candidates joined in trying to unite the party. 
 
 Evers did not go as far as his Democratic opponents on some issues. For instance, he is the only Democrat to oppose making the state’s technical colleges free. And unlike many of his colleagues, he did not embrace legalizing marijuana outright, saying he would do so only if voters approved of the idea in a statewide referendum. 
 
 Buy Photo Arline Jasinski feeds her ballot as poll worker Richard Koehler looks on at Franklin City Hall. (Photo: Mike De Sisti/Milwaukee Journal Sentinel) 
 
 Lieutenant governor 
 
 In the Democratic primary for lieutenant governor, former state Rep. Mandela Barnes of Milwaukee appeared on track to defeat Sheboygan businessman Kurt Kober. 
 
 Barnes will be paired with Evers on the November ballot. Incumbent Republican Rebecca Kleefisch did not have a challenger in the primary. 
 
 State treasurer 
 
 Businessman Travis Hartwig beat Jill Millies in the Republican primary for state treasurer. 
 
 The Democratic primary hadn't been called as of 10:20 p.m. Competing in that race were businesswoman Sarah Godlewski, former communications director for the Office of the state Treasurer Cynthia Kaump and former Treasurer Dawn Marie Sass. 
 
 Secretary of state 
 
 Secretary of State Doug La Follette easily withstood a challenge in the Democratic primary from Madison Ald. Arvina Martin. 
 
 La Follette will face Republican businessman Jay Schroeder in November. Schroeder beat U.S. Air Force veteran Spencer Zimmerman. 
 
 Max Bayer of the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel contributed to this report. 
 
 For complete election coverage, subscribe to the Journal Sentinel at jsonline.com/deal. 
 
 Support local journalism SUBSCRIBE × 
 
 Read or Share this story: https://jsonl.in/2MtmvO7 ||||| [Read more about Republican governors in Democratic states.] 
 
 Mr. Scott’s popularity fell, however, especially among conservatives, after he signed gun control measures this year. Still, a poll in July by public media organizations in the state found two-thirds of Vermonters supported the law, and nearly half of Democrats had a favorable opinion of Mr. Scott. Only 18 percent of Democratic respondents in the same poll said they had a favorable opinion of Ms. Hallquist, and 55 percent did not yet know who she was. 
 
 That may change now that Ms. Hallquist is the nominee, and she is likely to draw national attention — and fund-raising dollars — because of the historic potential of her candidacy. “She’ll raise more money and her message will get out there more,” said Eric Davis, an emeritus professor at Vermont’s Middlebury College. “Even if she doesn’t get elected governor, the greatest contribution of her campaign could be to raise awareness about the issues transgender people face.” 
 
 Before she ran for governor, Ms. Hallquist spent 12 years as the chief executive of the Vermont Electric Cooperative, an in-state power utility that she helped to bring back from near ruin. Her transition from male to female took place in 2015, while she was at the helm of the company, and was the subject of a documentary film made by her son. 
 
 As a candidate, she made it part of her stump speech, drawing knowing laughs from her female supporters at a fund-raiser this summer as she talked about what it was like to experience life as a woman for the first time. 
 
 “I remember the first time after transitioning, a stranger walking by told me to smile — I’m like, ‘Who the heck are you to tell me to smile?’” Ms. Hallquist said. “What my transition has taught me is just how far we have to go.” ||||| Despite a late-breaking accusation of abuse from an ex-girlfriend, Rep. Keith Ellison (D-Minn.) has won the Democratic nomination for attorney general. With 34 percent of precincts reporting, he was running far ahead of four other candidates, including Mark Pelikan, a young attorney who won the party endorsement at its summer convention. 
 
 Ellison is likely to face Republican Doug Wardlow, a former state legislator, for a job that no Republican has won since the 1970s. Republicans had planned to invest in the race even before this weekend, when Kate Monahan, whom Ellison had dated until 2016, shared social media posts that accused the congressman of emotional and physical abuse. ||||| U.S. Sen. Tina Smith beat Richard Painter, once the ethics chief in a Republican White House, in the DFL primary election Tuesday, setting up the state’s first U.S. Senate race with two women nominees. 
 
 State Sen. Karin Housley, who won the Republican nomination, will face Smith in the fall. “It’s inspiring for all young women out there that they can make a difference,” Housley said of the historic matchup. 
 
 Smith agreed. “It is a year when women feel particularly enthusiastic about stepping into the public arena, and I think that’s a good thing,” she said in an interview. 
 
 Two women who won primaries Tuesday in Wisconsin also will square off in that state’s U.S. Senate race. A record-breaking 19 women have won major-party nominations for the U.S. Senate this year, according to Rutgers University’s Center for American Women in Politics. 
 
 The Minnesota winner on Nov. 6 will finish the final two years of former DFL Sen. Al Franken’s term. He resigned in January amid sexual misconduct allegations. The race is crucial; Senate Republicans have a one-vote edge. 
 
 Smith’s victory was “a testament to the trust that Minnesota voters have in Tina to represent their interests,” DFL Party Chairman Ken Martin said in a statement. 
 
 Sen. Tina Smith 
 
 Chris Hansen, director of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, said in a statement that Housley “has what it takes to end left-wing Democrat Tina Smith’s brief career” in the Senate. 
 
 Sen. Amy Klobuchar won the Democratic nomination easily over four little-known opponents. In her bid for a third term, she’ll face state Rep. Jim Newberger of Becker, who has served three terms in the state Legislature. He defeated three Republican candidates in the primary. 
 
 Smith attributed her win to the fact that she “really listened to people.” She’ll employ the same strategy against Housley, she said. “The way elections are won in Minnesota is by talking to people and sharing what’s on their minds,” Smith said. “It sounds so simple, but it really is the thing that works.” 
 
 Housley said she’ll continue in the fall campaign to work hard and talk about jobs, the economy, trade issues’ effect on farmers, and immigration. “I will continue to support our elders,” she added. 
 
 She’s confident about her chances against Smith. “I am going to win,” she said. 
 
 Smith, 60, was appointed to the seat by Gov. Mark Dayton, whom she had served as lieutenant governor since 2015. Before that, she was the DFL governor’s chief of staff. She was endorsed by the DFL. 
 
 Housley, 54, is from St. Marys Point. She was elected to the Minnesota Senate in 2012 and in 2014 lost a race for lieutenant governor. 
 
 Painter, 56, who announced in April that he was leaving the Republican Party, is a University of Minnesota law professor. He was the chief ethics lawyer for President George W. Bush from 2005 to 2007. 
 
 Painter said his campaign helped call attention to ethics issues and to single-payer health care, which he endorsed. “We got a lot of attention around the country,” he said in an interview. He’ll resume teaching, Painter said. Asked if he’d consider running for office again, he said, “I don’t know. I’ll think about it.” 
 
 Voters interviewed at the polls Tuesday said their decisions in the Smith-Painter race turned on support for his animosity toward President Donald Trump — whom he said should be impeached — or doubts about whether his DFL conversion was genuine. 
 
 In late July, the DFL’s Martin publicly questioned whether Painter is actually a Democrat. Martin described Painter’s candidacy as “a craven act of desperation” because he is out of sync with the Republican Party. At the time, Painter said the DFL assault proved he was “a true threat to win this election.” 
 
 West Foster, 24, of Minneapolis, who works for a nonprofit group, voted for Smith. “I vote as far left as I can, and I’m not too impressed with Republicans — whether they say they are or not,” he said. 
 
 Paul Nelson, 50, a self-employed contractor in Minneapolis, was tempted by Painter, but he voted for Smith. “I’m a party guy,” he said. 
 
 When Housley and Smith meet in November, Trump’s policies and the senator’s record will be the top issues. 
 
 Smith has pledged to “stand up” to Trump. However, she has said she doesn’t think voters “want to hear us only talking about what we don’t like about this president.” 
 
 Housley has tried to establish some distance between her views and style and those of the president. For example, she said this summer that she disagreed with his decision to separate immigrant families. 
 
 Painter’s candidacy forced Smith to focus on wooing DFL voters. Meanwhile, GOP-endorsed Housley — who faced two candidates in the primary — made Smith her sole target. 
 
 Housley made frequent references to the “failed Dayton-Smith administration,” citing MNsure and the beleaguered vehicle registration system. 
 
 Cook Political Report, which handicaps campaigns, rates the race as a likely Demo­cratic win. So do Inside Elections and the University of Virginia’s Center for Politics. All three groups are nonpartisan. 
 
 The fall campaign is sure to become an expensive national battlefield, with outside TV ads flooding the airwaves and national interest groups’ money flowing into the race. 
 
 As of June 30, Smith had raised $4.8 million and Housley had collected $1.8 million. 
 
 Retired nurse Patricia Cohen, 75, voted in Minneapolis for Smith and Klobuchar because of their support for abortion rights. “There’s an assault on women’s privacy and the right to plan their families,” she said. “For me that’s one of the defining issues of our time.” 
 
 Kerry Riley, 41, a photographer and wardrobe stylist from Minneapolis, said her vote for Smith was less vital than showing up to vote — especially in the current political climate. “You have to,” she said.