Source: Multi-News

Fleetwood Mac, which has sold more than 100 million records, is announcing a new tour today that kicks off in October. But lead guitarist Lindsey Buckingham won't be on it. 
 
 In its more than 50 years as a band, Fleetwood Mac has become famous for its dysfunction and turmoil. But the announcement this month that Buckingham was ousted from the band still came as a shock. For the first time, band members tell CBS News what happened. 
 
 This week the new lineup was still getting to know each other, reports CBS News correspondent Anthony Mason. 
 
 The first photo session for the new Fleetwood Mac included Mike Campbell, former lead guitarist for Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, and Neil Finn, frontman for Crowded House. New members, but hardly novices. 
 
 "Both these gentlemen have a legacy of their own. They don't need to have a calling card. They are who they are in their own right," drummer Mick Fleetwood said. 
 
 With them, Fleetwood said, Fleetwood Mac has been reborn. 
 
 "So it's effectively a new band?" Mason said. 
 
 "This is absolutely a new band," Fleetwood responded. "This is the new lineup of Fleetwood Mac." 
 
 The new lineup of Fleetwood Mac CBS News 
 
 Neither Campbell or Finn are thinking of this as a temporary gig. 
 
 "I'm making this my priority until whenever, you know. We'll see what happens," Campbell said. 
 
 They will replace Buckingham, who joined the group back in 1974, helped re-shape their sound and wrote some of the group's biggest hits. 
 
 "Mick, when did you decide that you had to make this change?" Mason asked. 
 
 "It happened after we played in New York at the MusiCares event, which you were there," Fleetwood said. 
 
 It was the band's last performance in late January when they were honored at the MusiCares benefit on Grammy weekend. All five members of the classic lineup appeared together. But tensions were building, Fleetwood said, because Buckingham would not sign off on a new tour they'd been planning for a year and a half. 
 
 Honorees Stevie Nicks, John McVie, Christine McVie, Lindsey Buckingham and Mick Fleetwood perform onstage during MusiCares Person of the Year honoring Fleetwood Mac at Radio City Music Hall on January 26, 2018 in New York City. Dia Dipasupil / Getty Images 
 
 "It became just a huge impasse and hit a brick wall, where we decided that we had to part company," Fleetwood said. 
 
 "Was Lindsey effectively fired?" Mason asked. 
 
 "Well, we don't use that word because I think it's ugly. And it's not a question that Lindsey has huge amounts of respect and kudos to what he's done within the ranks of Fleetwood Mac and always will," Fleetwood said. "But it's like a marriage that came to an end and there are reasons why. … But as a band we needed to move on and we have and that's --" 
 
 "Because people who saw you in New York would've thought everything was OK. But it wasn't?" Mason asked. 
 
 "No, it was not," Fleetwood said. 
 
 Stevie Nicks supported the decision to part ways. 
 
 "This team wanted to get out on the road. And one of the members did not want to get out on the road for a year," Nicks said. "We just couldn't agree. And you know, when you're in a band, it's a team. I mean I have a solo career, and I love my solo career, and I'm the boss. Absolutely. But I'm not the boss in this band." 
 
 So just six days after the MusiCares performance, Campbell got a phone call from Fleetwood. "It was my birthday. And I was sitting in my backyard," Campbell recounted. He said he was wondering what he was going to do. He had a few things in the works, "but nothing quite as big as this," he said with a laugh. 
 
 Campbell was in as lead guitarist. But the band still needed another singer. 
 
 "We sat around a table and we just started listening to everybody we could think of," Nicks said. "Anywhere between, you know, 27 and 65. It was like -- it was crazy!" 
 
 "I just made it," Finn joked. 
 
 Finn, who turns 60 next month, was in his hometown, Auckland, New Zealand, when he got the call. 
 
 "I just had this kind of big grin on my face 'cause it's a call you never expect to get," Finn said. 
 
 They all met up at a theater in Maui on March 21. Nicks said they played together for two days. 
 
 "And it did sound really good and I have film to prove it," Nicks said. 
 
 We saw the cellphone footage of that first session. They ran through 10 songs in those two days. Christine McVie also liked what she heard. 
 
 "The essence of the band was great, and fun, and the three voices sound really good together," McVie said. "I'm really happy." 
 
 "It already feels like a band when we've only played once or twice. But with a little rehearsal, I think it's just gonna be incredible," Campbell said. 
 
 For him, it's a new beginning after losing Tom Petty last fall. 
 
 "It changed me and Mike for sure, in that you know, we need to take everyday that we have until we're gone and make it the best day we can because if that could happen to Tom, then it could happen to anybody," Nicks said. "And I'm gonna have the most fun I can and I'm gonna stop complaining. And I'm gonna throw myself into all these projects because you just never know." 
 
 Nicks, Campbell and Petty go way back. They co-wrote her first solo hit, "Stop Draggin' My Heart Around." 
 
 If all goes well, the band says they hope to record. They also said they did audition one other singer in Maui, but they won't reveal who that was. ||||| A little over a month ago, the majority of Fleetwood Mac – Stevie Nicks, Christine McVie, John McVie and Mick Fleetwood – quietly gathered at a little theater in Maui with their future in doubt. The band had secretly parted ways with Lindsey Buckingham, the longtime guitarist and voice behind many of their most enduring songs. According to the group, the split came down to a scheduling conflict surrounding a world tour. “We were supposed to go into rehearsal in June and he wanted to put it off until November [2019],” says Nicks. “That’s a long time. I just did 70 shows [on a solo tour]. As soon as I finish one thing, I dive back into another. Why would we stop? We don’t want to stop playing music. We don’t have anything else to do. This is what we do.” 
 
 
 
 Related Broken Chain: A History of Fleetwood Mac Firings and Departures Lindsey Buckingham's firing is just the latest in a decades-long game of musical chairs for the Hall of Fame band 
 
 So instead, they invited Mike Campbell, the former guitarist of Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, and Crowded House frontman Neil Finn and spent a few days workshopping tunes from their vast catalog to see if this new lineup had the right chemistry. “I immediately felt like I’d known them for years,” says Christine McVie, “even though we’d only just met.” 
 
 The new lineup will embark on a massive 52-date tour beginning October 3rd in Tulsa and criss-crossing the country before wrapping up in Phladelphia in April 2019. Tickets for the tour go on sale Friday, May 4th at 10 a.m. local time. (A complete itinerary is listed below.) The group also announced the launch of a SiriusXM channel devoted to the band beginning Tuesday, May 1st. 
 
 Nobody in the group is quite willing to say Buckingham was “fired,” but they don’t completely object to the term. “Words like ‘fired’ are ugly references as far as I’m concerned,” says Fleetwood. “Not to hedge around, but we arrived at the impasse of hitting a brick wall. This was not a happy situation for us in terms of the logistics of a functioning band. To that purpose, we made a decision that we could not go on with him. Majority rules in term of what we need to do as a band and go forward.” Buckingham did not respond to multiple requests for comment for this story. 
 
 
 
 "Majority rules in term of what we need to do as a band and go forward" - Mick Fleetwood 
 
 Buckingham’s ousting marks the latest messy chapter in the ongoing 50-year Fleetwood Mac story – or, as drummer Mick Fleetwood tells it, business as usual. When key early members like Peter Green and Jeremy Spencer left the group in the early 1970s, Fleetwood got right on the phone and recruited new ones. The group never stopped working, even when Nicks left in the early 1990s and a new lineup found themselves opening up for the likes of REO Speedwagon on the state fair circuit. “There’s no doubt that my instincts, for better or worse, have always been to gravitate towards going forward,” Fleetwood tells Rolling Stone. “Having said that, I’d be lying if I didn’t literally say to myself, ‘This one needs a lot of thought.’” 
 
 
 
 One of the first people that came to mind was Campbell, who was at his home on the Hawaiian island of Kauai when the call came. It happened to be his 68th birthday. “I was sitting in my yard by my pool contemplating my future without my partner [Tom Petty], which was going to be a dark place in a lot of ways,” he says. “ I said, ‘Give me a day to think it over.’ The more I thought about it, the more I though it could be great. I’ve known Stevie for years and we’ve always been very creative together.” 
 
 Related Rob Sheffield on Why the Latest Fleetwood Mac Breakup Is Peak Mac The band's firing of Lindsey Buckingham might be the most quintessential chapter yet in the band's epic saga of dysfunction 
 
 Not long after getting a commitment from Campbell, Fleetwood called up Finn at his New Zealand home. The singer had enormous success in the 1970s and 1980s with his bands Split Enz and Crowded House, but he was now earning a comfortable living as a solo artist with a devoted cult following. Getting back in the arena rock game was the last thing on his mind. “I was stunned when I got the call from Mick,” he says. “I was enjoying my life and my music, but I have a restless nature and now I’m relishing this beautiful gift that’s been given to me.” 
 
 The group has yet to begin formal rehearsals - which they say will last two months working five days a week - but they've already decided that this tour will feature songs from the entire history of Fleetwood Mac, not just the original Buckingham/Nicks run from 1975 to 1987. “We were never able to do that since 1975 because certain people in the band weren’t interested in doing that,” says Nicks. “Now we’re able to open the set with a lot; a raucous version of [1969’s] ‘Rattlesnake Shake’ or something. I’d also like to do [1970’s] ‘Station Man,’ which has always been one of may favorites. We’re definitely doing [1970’s] ‘Oh Well.’” 
 
 
 
 How does this all feel to bassist John McVie, the guy that put the “Mac” in Fleetwood Mac but speaks so infrequently that most fans don’t even know what his voice sounds like? “I felt very comfortable when we rehearsed,” he says. “It seemed to fit. It’s another exciting chapter in the book, in the saga.” 
 
 The expanded set, however, doesn’t mean they’ll be neglecting the big radio hits like “Gold Dust Woman” and “The Chain.” “There are 10 hits we have to do,” says Nicks. “That leaves another 13 songs if you want to do a three-hour show. Then you crochet them all together and you make a great sequence and you have something that nobody has seen before except all the things they want to see are there. At rehearsal, we’re going to put up a board of 60 songs. Then we start with number one and we go through and we play everything. Slowly you start taking songs off and you start to see your set come together.” 
 
 "This is sad for me, but I want the next 10 years of my life to be really fun and happy" - Stevie Nicks 
 
 The band realizes that a Fleetwood Mac tour without Buckingham will be a different experience, but they soldiered on without him on the 1987 Tango In The Night tour and didn’t see a big decline in attendance. They also had 16 years of successful road work without Christine McVie when she left in 1998. She came back for the 2015 On With The Show tour, and last year recorded an album with Buckingham that they supported with a long tour that wrapped up just five months ago. “I had a great time with him on the road and making that record,” she says. “I was surprised to hear the news because it happened after I went back to London that the decision was made. But life moves on and I wanted to carry on with these guys.” 
 
 
 
 For Nicks, carrying on without Buckingham is bittersweet. “Our relationship has always been volatile,” she says. “We were never married, but we might as well have been. Some couples get divorced after 40 years. They break their kids' hearts and destroy everyone around them because it’s just hard. This is sad for me, but I want the next 10 years of my life to be really fun and happy. I want to get up every day and dance around my apartment and smile and say, ‘Thank God for this amazing life.’” 
 
 
 
 Fleetwood Mac North American Tour 
 
 
 
 October 3 - Tulsa, OK @ BOK Center 
 
 October 6 - Chicago, IL @ United Center 
 
 October 10 - Louisville, KY @ KFC Yum! Center 
 
 October 12 - Lincoln, NE @ Pinnacle Bank Arena 
 
 October 14 - Des Moines, IA @ Wells Fargo Arena 
 
 October 16 - Indianapolis, IN @ Bankers Life Fieldhouse 
 
 October 18 - Kansas City, MO @ Sprint Center 
 
 October 20 - St. Louis, MO @ Scottrade Center 
 
 October 22 - St. Paul, MN @ Xcel Energy Center 
 
 October 26 - Cleveland, OH @ Quicken Loans Arena 
 
 October 28 - Milwaukee, WI @ Wisconsin Entertainment and Sports Center 
 
 October 30 - Detroit, MI @ Little Caesars Arena 
 
 November 1 - Pittsburgh, PA @ PPG Paints Arena 
 
 November 3 - Ottawa, ON @ Canadian Tire Centre 
 
 November 5 - Toronto, ON @ Air Canada Centre 
 
 November 7 - Columbus, OH @ Nationwide Arena 
 
 November 10 - Edmonton, AB @ Rogers Place 
 
 November 12 - Calgary, AB @ Scotiabank Saddledome 
 
 November 14 - Vancouver, BC @ Rogers Arena 
 
 November 17 - Tacoma, WA @ Tacoma Dome 
 
 November 19 - Portland, OR @ Moda Center 
 
 November 21 - San Jose, CA @ SAP Center at San Jose 
 
 November 23 - Sacramento, CA @ Golden 1 Center 
 
 November 25 - Oakland, CA @ Oracle Arena 
 
 November 28 - Phoenix, AZ @ Talking Stick Resort Arena 
 
 November 30 - Las Vegas, NV @ T-Mobile Arena 
 
 December 3 - Denver, CO @ Pepsi Center 
 
 December 6 - Fresno, CA @ Save Mart Center 
 
 December 8 - San Diego, CA @ Viejas Arena 
 
 December 11 - Inglewood, CA @ The Forum 
 
 December 13 - Inglewood, CA @ The Forum 
 
 February 5, 2019 - Houston, TX @ Toyota Center 
 
 February 7 - Dallas, TX @ American Airlines Center 
 
 February 9 - Austin, TX @ Frank Erwin Center 
 
 February 13 - Birmingham, AL @ Legacy Arena at The BJCC 
 
 February 16 - New Orleans, LA @ Smoothie King Center 
 
 February 18 - Tampa, FL @ Amalie Arena 
 
 February 20 - Ft. Lauderdale, FL @ BB&T Center 
 
 February 22 - Columbia, SC @ Colonial Life Arena 
 
 February 24 - Charlotte, NC @ Spectrum Center 
 
 February 27 - Nashville, TN @ Bridgestone Arena 
 
 March 3 - Atlanta, GA @ Philips Arena 
 
 March 5 - Washington, DC @ Capital One Arena 
 
 March 9 - Atlantic City, NJ @ Boardwalk Hall 
 
 March 11 - New York, NY @ Madison Square Garden 
 
 March 13 - Newark, NJ @ Prudential Center 
 
 March 15 - Hartford, CT @ XL CENTER 
 
 March 20 - Albany, NY @ Times Union Center 
 
 March 24 - Baltimore, MD @ Royal Farms Arena 
 
 March 26 - Buffalo, NY @ KeyBank Center 
 
 March 31 - Boston, MA @ TD Garden 
 
 April 5 - Philadelphia, PA @ Wells Fargo Center