Source: Multi-News

He thought the box was empty, but a California husband accidentally sold his wife's $23,000 diamond wedding ring for $10 at a garage sale on June 1. 
 
 "Every year our community holds a garage sale. I was in the hospital, I just had a baby, so my husband thought it would be fun for my other kids if they could sell some things at the garage sale," said Racquel Cloutier, 31, of Laguna Niguel, Calif., who owns the ring. 
 
 For the sale Eric Cloutier chose things he thought the family no longer needed, including a seemingly empty watch box. 
 
 "He didn't know that before I went to the hospital, I put my ring in that box. I wanted the ring to be in a safe place and out of reach from my 2-year-old twins," Cloutier told ABC News. 
 
 Cloutier realized her ring, and the box it was in, was missing a day after she returned from the hospital, June 5. 
 
 "I go into my husband's closet, can't find the box, and then he tells me he sold it. I said, 'You sold it? What do you mean you sold it?' I immediately started crying," Cloutier said. 
 
 "I'm very, very, very upset," Cloutier continued. "I'm trying to remain optimistic but I don't know anymore. There's a small chance whoever bought the box doesn't know the ring is in there." 
 
 According to Cloutier, the ring was inadvertently bought by a blonde woman who was at first unsure if she would even buy the watch box. 
 
 "I would never, ever keep the ring if I had found it," Cloutier said. "If you're honest, you're honest. Clearly, the ring was in the box by accident." 
 
 As for Cloutier's husband, "He feels really terrible," she said. ||||| Tweet with a location 
 
 You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more ||||| LAGUNA NIGUEL, Calif. (KTLA) — A husband who accidentally sold his wife’s wedding ring at a garage sale was hoping the person who bought it would bring it back. 
 
 Racquel Cloutier hid her $22,000 wedding ring under a cushion in a wooden watch box for safe keeping before she went into the hospital to deliver her fifth child. 
 
 While Cloutier was in the hospital, her husband, Eric, sold the box at a neighborhood garage sale for $10. 
 
 “We never use it so I said let’s make somebody happy. I looked in it, I didn’t see anything and I sold it,” Eric Cloutier said. 
 
 Racquel Cloutier is offering a reward for the return of her wedding ring. 
 
 “It’s my wedding ring and its a one of a kind,” Cloutier said. “It’s such a bad feeling whenever you lose something, especially when it means so much to you.” 
 
 The woman who bought the box was described as middle-aged with shoulder length blond hair and glasses. 
 
 “We’re hoping maybe she can see this on TV and maybe realize and look in the box and hopefully she’ll be honest enough and bring it back,” Eric Cloutier said. 
 
 The family can be contacted by email at racquelcloutier@gmail.com. 
 
 The ring can also be dropped off anonymously at the security gate of the San Joaquin Hills community, located at 27380 Aliso Niguel Road. ||||| Poker player Eric Cloutier made headlines this week for accidentally selling his wife’s wedding ring — reportedly valued at $23,000 — for just $10 at a neighborhood garage sale. 
 
 Note: Cloutier deleted a Tweet that was originally embedded in this article. The Tweet referred to the lady who reportedly bought the ring as “shady.” 
 
 Cloutier’s wife, Racquel, was in the hospital at the time of the sale. She had taken off her ring and put it in a box prior to her hospital visit, but when she returned she discovered a problem. 
 
 “I go into my husband’s closet, can’t find the box, and then he tells me he sold it. I said, ‘You sold it? What do you mean you sold it?’ I immediately started crying,” Racquel Cloutier told ABC News. “I’m very, very, very upset. I’m trying to remain optimistic but I don’t know anymore. There’s a small chance whoever bought the box doesn’t know the ring is in there.” 
 
 Eric Cloutier is a former professional hockey player. He has more than $550,000 in career tournament earnings. He finished runner-up in a 2010 World Series of Poker event. 
 
 On Wednesday, less than two weeks after the incident, Cloutier said on Twitter that he is thinking about coming to the World Series of Poker, currently underway in Las Vegas.