Source: Multi-News

Vice President Pence on Wednesday rejected claims from Democrats that FBI Director James Comey was fired to stop the bureau's investigation into possible ties between the Trump campaign and Russia. 
 
 "That's not what this was about," Pence told reporters at the Capitol. 
 
 "The president's decision to accept the recommendation of the deputy attorney general and the attorney general to remove Director Comey as the head of the FBI was based solely and exclusively on his commitment to the best interest of the American people," he said, responding to a question from NBC's Kristen Welker. 
 
 ADVERTISEMENT 
 
 Pence praised President Trump and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, whom Pence called "a man of extraordinary independence and integrity." 
 
 Trump "made the right decision at the right time," Pence said. 
 
 "Director Comey had lost the confidence of the American people," he added. "I personally am very grateful that we have a president willing to show the kind of strong and decisive leadership" necessary to fire him." 
 
 Trump fired Comey Tuesday evening in a letter that thanked Comey for "informing me, on three separate occasions, that I am not under investigation." Trump said the firing was necessary to "find new leadership for the FBI that restores public trust and confidence in its vital law enforcement mission." ||||| Story highlights The vice president is taking the lead on the Hill in hopes of helping to reshape the narrative 
 
 Pence repeatedly emphasized to reporters that Trump's decision was the right one 
 
 (CNN) Vice President Mike Pence on Wednesday praised President Donald Trump's decision to fire FBI Director James Comey and insisted the decision wasn't due to the ongoing probe into alleged ties between Trump's campaign and Russia. 
 
 "As has been stated repeatedly and the President has been told, he's not under investigation," Pence told reporters on Capitol Hill. He added: "There is no evidence of collusion between our campaign and any Russian officials." 
 
 The vice president is taking the lead on the Hill in hopes of helping to reshape the narrative surrounding Comey's exit, a White House official said. Pence spoke to the media "to take the steam" out of the controversy, the official added. 
 
 JUST WATCHED Trump: Comey was not doing a good job Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: Comey was not doing a good job 00:33 
 
 Shortly after Pence's remarks, Trump responded to the controversy for the first time in person, telling pool reporters in the Oval Office he fired Comey because "he wasn't doing a good job." 
 
 Read More