Source: Multi-News

Justice The Simply Breathtaking Consequences Of Justice Scalia’s Death CREDIT: AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta 
 
 Twenty-four hours ago, Republicans were headed into what remains of the current Supreme Court term with a solid majority and a docket strewn with some of the most consequential cases in decades. Affirmative action, abortion, birth control, immigration, an effort to shift congressional power to Republicans — all of these issues are before the justices this term. 
 
 The issues remain before the Court, but the balance of power just changed. Justice Antonin Scalia, the longest-serving member of the Court and one of its most outspoken conservatives, is dead. When the sun rose this morning, Republicans enjoyed a 5-4 majority on the nation’s highest Court. It sets on an evenly divided bench. 
 
 President Obama will undoubtedly nominate someone to fill the vacant seat on the Supreme Court (pro tip: you should probably get used to hearing the words “Judge Sri Srinivasan” a whole lot in the coming months). The GOP-controlled Senate, meanwhile, is overwhelmingly likely to refuse to confirm anyone Obama nominates. News of Scalia’s death had barely broken when one Senate Judiciary Committee member’s communications director offered this assessment: 
 
 
 
 What is less than zero? The chances of Obama successfully appointing a Supreme Court Justice to replace Scalia? — Conn Carroll (@conncarroll) February 13, 2016 
 
 The most important rule to bear in mind now that the Court is likely to remain evenly divided for the foreseeable future is that, when the Court divides evenly on a case that is pending before it, the lower court’s order stands and the Supreme Court’s consideration of the case has no precedential value. Ordinarily, it is as if the justices never agreed to take up the case in the first place. For this term, here’s how this rule is likely to impact the Court’s docket: 
 
 Immigration 
 
 United States v. Texas concerns the legality of Obama administration immigration policies that, if allowed to take effect, will temporarily enable close to five million undocumented immigrants to remain in the county. It is also the case that presents the most opportunity for chaos if the Court evenly divides on the outcome. 
 
 In a highly unusual order, a federal district judge issued a nationwide halt to the policy and refused to stay that decision. A conservative panel of the conservative United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit upheld those decisions by the district judge. Thus, if the Court splits 4-4 in the Texas case, the Fifth Circuit’s order will stand. 
 
 Where things get complicated is if the Justice Department successfully obtains an order from a different circuit upholding the program, or if an immigrant who hopes to benefit from the program obtains a similar order. The Fifth Circuit is among the most conservative courts in the country, and it is unlikely that every circuit will follow its lead. In that case, there will be competing court orders holding the policies both legal and illegal, and no possibility of Supreme Court review. It is not immediately clear what happens in such a case. 
 
 Abortion 
 
 Another case out of Texas, Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt, also could lead to confusion if the Court evenly divides. Whole Woman’s Health is the greatest threat to Roe v. Wade to reach the Supreme Court in a generation. If five justices back the Texas law in this case, it is unclear that there will be any meaningful limits on states’ ability to pass anti-abortion laws. 
 
 Without Scalia’s vote, however, the chances that the Supreme Court will uphold the Texas law outright is vanishingly small. Should they split 4-4, however, the Fifth Circuit’s decision upholding the Texas law will stand and states within the Fifth Circuit (Louisiana, Texas and Mississippi) will most likely gain broad discretion to restrict abortion while Scalia’s seat remains open. Meanwhile, the fate of the right to choose would rest upon which federal appellate circuit a woman happened to reside in. Women in fairly liberal circuits would likely continue to enjoy the same rights they enjoy under existing precedents, while women in conservative circuits could see their right shrink to virtual nothingness. 
 
 Birth Control 
 
 Geography could also play a significant role in deciding women’s ability to access birth control. To date, every federal appeals court to consider the question but one, the Eighth Circuit, has upheld Obama administration rules enabling women to obtain health plans that cover birth control even if their employer objects to contraception on religious ground. 
 
 There is a good chance that Justice Anthony Kennedy, a conservative who occasionally votes with the Court’s liberal bloc in politically charged cases, could vote to uphold these rules as well, producing a 5-3 vote. If Kennedy votes with the conservatives, however, women’s access to birth control will vary from circuit to circuit. Though it is likely that most circuits will follow the majority rule and uphold the rules, women in the Eighth Circuit (Arkansas, Iowa, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota and South Dakota) will not be as lucky. 
 
 Unions 
 
 Public sector unions are saved, at least for now. After oral arguments in Friedrichs v. California Teachers Association, it appeared likely that an ambitious effort to defund public sector unions would gain five votes on the Supreme Court. Now this effort only has four votes. Moreover, because the plaintiffs in this case lost in the court below, a decision affirming the lower court in an evenly divided vote is effectively a victory for organized workers. 
 
 Redistricting 
 
 Similarly, the plaintiffs in Evenwel v. Abbott, a case that could have effectively forced many states to redraw their congressional maps in ways that would give more power to white voters and less to communities with large numbers of immigrants, almost certainly will not have five votes. Because the court below ruled against these plaintiffs, states will not have to redraw their maps, for now. 
 
 Affirmative Action 
 
 One case where Scalia’s absence could matter less is Fisher v. University of Texas, a challenge to affirmative action programs in university admissions. Although the court below upheld the University of Texas’s program, liberal Justice Elena Kagan is recused from this case. Therefore, four votes are enough to make up a majority. If the Court’s remaining conservatives vote against affirmative action, that is enough for them to get their way. 
 
 That said, Justice Kennedy did appear somewhat reluctant to kill affirmative action outright at oral arguments (although he may want to task a lower court with the job of killing Texas’ program). In any event, if Kennedy votes with the three liberals who are not recused from this case, what would have otherwise been a 4-4 decision will now be a 4-3 decision in the liberals’ favor. 
 
 The Fate of the Earth 
 
 As a final note, it’s worth nothing that Scalia’s last act as a Supreme Court justice may have been to supply the fifth vote in a series of orders handed down on Tuesday halting President Obama’s most ambitious effort to fight climate change. If the Court remains evenly divided in this case, it could matter a great deal that the two judges assigned to this case in the court below are Democratic appointees. If they vote to uphold the administration’s policies, that order will stand unless there is a fifth justice who votes to reverse that decision. ||||| 
 
 Supreme Court Justice Scalia speaks to Washington Metro Area Corporate Counsel Association at Ritz Carlton Tyson's Corner at their annual luncheon, with Justice Scalia in Washington, DC. on Jan.18,2012 . (Jeffrey MacMillan/The Washington Post) 
 
 Antonin Scalia was certainly one of the most outspoken Supreme Court justices in American history. He always had something to say, and his angry, sometimes-furious, and often-sarcastic dissents produced some of the most memorable quotes of any Supreme Court decisions. 
 
 Scalia's penchant for the colorful was evident throughout his tenure on the court. Below are 10 of his most memorable, quirky, scathing and pithy quotes. 
 
 June 2015, King v. Burwell (The decision that decided the fate of the Affordable Care Act): 
 
 “We should start calling this law SCOTUScare.” (In reference to the court having upheld the law for the second time, over his objections.) 
 
 “This case requires us to decide whether someone who buys insurance on an Exchange established by the Secretary gets tax credits. You would think the answer would be obvious — so obvious there would hardly be a need for the Supreme Court to hear a case about it.” 
 
 Antonin Scalia died on Saturday, Feb. 13. Here's a look back on his tenure, his judicial philosophy and the legacy he leaves behind. (Monica Akhtar,Natalie Jennings/The Washington Post) 
 
 “The Court’s next bit of interpretive jiggery-pokery involves other parts of the Act that purportedly presuppose the availability of tax credits on both federal and state Exchanges.” 
 
 June 2015, Obergefell v. Hodges (The decision that legalized same-sex marriage nationwide): 
 
 “When the Fourteenth Amendment was ratified in 1868, every State limited marriage to one man and one woman, and no one doubted the constitutionality of doing so. … Since there is no doubt whatever that the People never decided to prohibit the limitation of marriage to opposite-sex couples, the public debate over same-sex marriage must be allowed to continue. But the Court ends this debate, in an opinion lacking even a thin veneer of law.” 
 
 “The opinion is couched in a style that is as pretentious as its content is egotistic. It is one thing for separate concurring or dissenting opinions to contain extravagances, even silly extravagances, of thought and expression; it is something else for the official opinion of the Court to do so.” 
 
 March 2012, on the Affordable Care Act: 
 
 "Could you define the market -- everybody has to buy food sooner or later, so you define the market as food, therefore, everybody is in the market; therefore, you can make people buy broccoli." 
 
 The U.S. Supreme Court raised its flags to half staff on Feb. 13 in honor of Justice Antonin Scalia, who passed away earlier that day. (Andrew Heining/The Washington Post) 
 
 January 2012, Citizens United v. FEC (opening the door to increased outside spending in elections): 
 
 "I don't care who is doing the speech — the more the merrier. People are not stupid. If they don't like it, they'll shut it off." 
 
 May 2011, California Lawyer magazine interview: 
 
 "Certainly the Constitution does not require discrimination on the basis of sex. The only issue is whether it prohibits it. It doesn't. Nobody ever thought that that's what it meant. Nobody ever voted for that. If the current society wants to outlaw discrimination by sex, hey we have things called legislatures, and they enact things called laws. You don't need a constitution to keep things up-to-date. All you need is a legislature and a ballot box. You don't like the death penalty anymore, that's fine. You want a right to abortion? There's nothing in the Constitution about that. But that doesn't mean you cannot prohibit it. Persuade your fellow citizens it's a good idea and pass a law. That's what democracy is all about. It's not about nine superannuated judges who have been there too long, imposing these demands on society." 
 
 May 2001, PGA Tour Inc. v. Martin (on whether a handicapped golfer could use a motorized cart): 
 
 "If one assumes, however, that the PGA TOUR has some legal obligation to play classic, Platonic golf — and if one assumes the correctness of all the other wrong turns the Court has made to get to this point — then we Justices must confront what is indeed an awesome responsibility. It has been rendered the solemn duty of the Supreme Court of the United States, laid upon it by Congress in pursuance of the Federal Government’s power “[t]o regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States,” to decide What Is Golf. I am sure that the Framers of the Constitution, aware of the 1457 edict of King James II of Scotland prohibiting golf because it interfered with the practice of archery, fully expected that sooner or later the paths of golf and government, the law and the links, would once again cross, and that the judges of this august Court would some day have to wrestle with that age-old jurisprudential question, for which their years of study in the law have so well prepared them: Is someone riding around a golf course from shot to shot really a golfer? The answer, we learn, is yes. The Court ultimately concludes, and it will henceforth be the Law of the Land, that walking is not a “fundamental” aspect of golf." 
 
 June 1996, United States v. Virginia: 
 
 "If it were impossible for individual human beings (or groups of human beings) to act autonomously in effective pursuit of a common goal, the game of soccer would not exist." 
 
 Read more: 
 
 Scalia's death could lead to a historically messy political fight 
 
 What happens when a Supreme Court justice passes away? 
 
 Can Republicans really block Obama’s Supreme Court nomination for a year? Probably. 
 
 Prior to Scalia’s death, the Supreme Court was almost as old as ever before ||||| John Gress/ASSOCIATED PRESS 
 
 Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia died while on a trip to the Big Bend area of Texas, according to the U.S. Marshals Service. The longtime conservative jurist, known for an acerbic wit and occasionally biting opinions and dissents, was 79. 
 
 Below are some early reactions to the news from the legal world: 
 
 Texas Gov. Greg Abbott: 
 
 He was the solid rock who turned away so many attempts to depart from and distort the Constitution. His fierce loyalty to the Constitution set an unmatched example, not just for judges and lawyers, but for all Americans. We mourn his passing, and we pray that his successor on the Supreme Court will take his place as a champion for the written Constitution and the Rule of Law. 
 
 Chief Justice John G. Roberts, Jr. 
 
 On behalf of the Court and retired Justices, I am saddened to report that our colleague Justice Antonin Scalia has passed away. He was an extraordinary individual and jurist, admired and treasured by his colleagues. His passing is a great loss to the Court and the country he so loyally served. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Maureen and his family. 
 
 Loretta Lynch, U.S. Attorney General 
 
 “Justice Antonin Scalia was, and will always be remembered as, one of the most influential and eloquent Justices ever to serve on the U.S. Supreme Court. His indomitable conviction and his fierce intelligence left a lasting imprint – not just on the way the Supreme Court resolves cases, but on the legal landscape that he helped to transform. A lion of American law has left the stage, and it is up to all of us – every American – to keep our national constitutional dialogue as lively and as learned as he left it.” 
 
 Donald Verrilli, U.S. Solicitor General 
 
 “I am saddened by the passing of Justice Antonin Scalia. He was a great jurist and a great man who served the Court and the country with honor and distinction. We will miss him very much.” 
 
 Laurence Tribe, professor at Harvard Law School: 
 
 I’m still in shock, but one thing I can say is that I liked the Justice personally and greatly admired his contribution to our legal system even when I disagreed profoundly with his views. 
 
 Carter Phillips, longtime Supreme Court advocate and chair of Sidley Austin: 
 
 I argued 73 cases before him and it will be very strange to be at the podium later this month and not have him come out from behind the curtain and walk into the bench. He always made oral argument more interesting, even when he disagreed with me. I’ll miss that. 
 
 Rachel Barkow, professor at NYU Law School, member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission, former clerk to Justice Scalia: 
 
 I’m in rough shape today with the news of his passing, so I don’t think I have the capacity to write something as eloquent as he deserves. He was the best professional mentor I could have hoped to have and a true model of excellence in all respects. He was warm, funny, and generous —with his time and his intellect. I will miss him so much. 
 
 The Federalist Society: 
 
 Justice Scalia was among the greatest members of the Supreme Court in our nation’s history, and will long be remembered for his intelligent, principled, and tenacious dedication to our Constitution and to faithful interpretation of the law as its is written. He has had an enduring impact on the way our country approaches law and the Constitution, and we are grateful for that extraordinary contribution as well as the tremendous kindness he has shown the Federalist Society and many of its leaders and members since our founding. 
 
 People for the American Way: 
 
 Although our views on the law differed greatly, no one can doubt that Justice Scalia possessed a brilliant intellect and a profound love of our Constitution. Americans of every stripe should be grateful for his service to our nation. 
 
 Nan Aron, Alliance for Justice president 
 
 Alliance for Justice extends its condolences to the family, friends, and colleagues of Antonin Scalia. His death creates a vacancy at a critical time in the history of the Court, the law, and our nation. We urge President Obama to exercise his constitutional duty to nominate a replacement and for the Senate to fulfill its obligation to fairly and expeditiously consider the nominee. For the Senate to do otherwise would be an abdication of its responsibilities and a blow to public confidence in our democratic institutions. We are confident that the president will nominate someone who understands the lives and struggles of everyday Americans, and trust that that the Supreme Court of the United States will not become a casualty of the politics of destruction, denial, and obstruction. 
 
 Neal Katyal, appellate lawyer at Hogan Lovells and former acting Solicitor General: 
 
 Justice Scalia was THE game changer of the Court. In our lifetimes, no one has had a more profound impact on the Court–from its methodology to its opinions to the rigor of oral argument–than he did. His opinion in Morrison v Olson, a lone dissent, is the very best opinion written during my lifetime. I did not always agree with him l, but I, and every member of the Supreme Court bar, treasured him. 
 
 Gregory Garre, appellate lawyer at Latham & Watkins and former Solicitor General: 
 
 My first reaction is sadness at his passing and, my second, is that it is almost impossible to imagine the Court without him. I don’t think it’s possible to overstate his impact on the Court, from almost single handedly changing the nature of oral argument, to the many areas of law that his opinions shaped, to the way that he altered the manner in which judges and lawyers think about how to even approach the interpretation of the Constitution and statutes. Few Justices in our history have had the impact on the court, and the law, that Justice Scalia had. 
 
 Jeffrey Fisher, appellate lawyer and Stanford Law professor 
 
 He was a great man who had an incredible influence on our law. Every lawyer who ever went up there, you think about preparing for every justice, but I think it’s fair to say that Justice Scalia is at the forefront in your mind, how you’ll deal with his questions. I’ve done 28 arguments, and every one has been with him on the bench. He understood the Constitution, and the 6th Amendment in particular, as a document really meant to restrain the government. That really played out in certain ways liberals might not like on the civil side, but played out in ways that benefited criminal defendants. 
 
 Michigan Supreme Court Justice Joan Larsen, former Scalia clerk: 
 
 Justice Scalia had a profound effect on the shape of American law, particularly in the fields of statutory and constitutional interpretation….There were many, many people who admired Justice Scalia’s commitment to first constitutional principles, and to reading the text of statutes for what they said, not for what the judges wished they would say. But even those who disagreed with his approach, could not take him lightly. His was a brilliant mind and everyone knew it. He was a force to be reckoned with.What I wish more people knew about him is that behind his “sharp pen” lay a warm and gregarious person. He was utterly gracious and disarming in person. He could talk to anyone and make that person feel completely at ease. He had a big laugh that could fill a room and he would get this impish twinkle in his eye when he was about to deliver the “gotcha” punchline of one of his jokes. 
 
 Joseph Kearney, dean of Marquette University Law School, former Scalia clerk 
 
 He very much believed in—indeed, was committed to—the distinction between law and politics. He thought that distinction to be something real and worth preserving. In that regard, I recall his considering, during my clerkship, whether to interview a law clerk applicant who had distinguished himself in another field before law school. Justice Scalia was attracted to considering the applicant because of the person’s intelligence and learning. Yet upon reviewing the applicant’s law school transcript, he thought it rather devoid of law courses. I will never forget his saying, “I need a lawyer,” and thereupon putting down the application, never to pick it up again. 
 
 Alex Azar, president of Lilly USA LLC, a subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Co., former Scalia clerk 
 
 I’m often asked by people what was it was like to clerk for Justice Scalia. I always tell people it was intimidating, it was inspiring and it was an experience I thank God for everyday. The intimidating part was…you’re with somebody that I believed at the time and believe to this day is one of the top ten greatest figures in the history of Anglo-American law. 
 
 Joshua Rosenkranz, head of appellate practice at Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe, former Scalia clerk: ||||| Justice Antonin Scalia’s death opens the possibility that the Supreme Court could rule 4-4 in a case before a replacement is confirmed. 
 
 If that were to happen, the decision of the lower court would stand. The decision would be binding on the immediate parties but would not set a national precedent, as a normal Supreme Court decision would. 
 
 It would be as if the court never ruled at all. ||||| Photo illustration by Juliana Jiménez. Photo By Tom Williams/Roll Call. 
 
 Appointed to the Supreme Court by President Ronald Reagan in 1986, Justice Antonin Scalia was the pugilistic and charismatic face of the court’s conservative wing. He died Saturday at the age of 79, leaving one of the most important intellectual legacies in Supreme Court history. With a staggeringly original mind, a ferociously quotable pen, and a cult following among young conservatives, Scalia made believing in the Framers cool again. 
 
 Dahlia Lithwick Dahlia Lithwick writes about the courts and the law for Slate, and hosts the podcast Amicus. 
 
 
 
 His almost 30-year tenure at the high court was transformational; perhaps most striking was his advocacy for originalism (or, more correctly, textualism)—a mode of constitutional interpretation that focused on the interpretation of the law by looking scrupulously to the intent of the legislators who wrote the law. Under his leadership, the court went from an institution often divided on the best way of interpreting the Constitution to a court that often deferred completely to Scalia’s textualist preferences. So profound was his originalist influence on his colleagues that when the court decided United States v. Heller in 2008, even the liberal dissenters approached the D.C. gun laws through the lens of originalism, leading many commentators to observe that Scalia had won: “We are all originalists now.” 
 
 Advertisement 
 
 
 
 There is no doubt that Scalia was a hard-line conservative—a juggernaut in reversing the Warren court revolution—he led the court into culture war battles over race, abortion, religion, the death penalty, and gay rights. But Scalia was also an occasionally surprising hard-liner when it came to protecting the rights of criminal defendants who could not, for instance, challenge witnesses testifying against them or the privacy rights of those who objected to the use of thermal imaging in searches of their homes. 
 
 Professionally, Scalia was perhaps most famous for his deep friendship with Ruth Bader Ginsburg—one of the court’s staunchest liberals. His regard for her intellect was so profound that it transcended all ideology. While he was the court’s larger-than-life bon vivant, and she was its diminutive whisperer, the two could not have been more respectful of each other. In an article I once did about Ginsburg’s approach to persuasion, Scalia noted, “She does it quietly; but she’s very effective.” 
 
 Scalia did nothing quietly. His speeches were bombastic, his dissents lashed and slashed: In his famous dissent on the King v. Burwell ruling that upheld the Affordable Care Act, Scalia accused his colleagues of committing “interpretive jiggery-pokery” and dismissed their reasoning as “pure applesauce.” Dissenting in a case about the Defense of Marriage Act, he sneered that the majority was using “legalistic argle-bargle.” Sometimes the caustic tones would nudge other justices away from Scalia’s camp. But it won him undying admiration among the legion of young law students and lawyers who found his prose eminently readable, urgent, and scorching. On a court largely embodied by reserve and dignity, Scalia lived and wrote in Technicolor.