Source: Multi-News

FILE - In this Oct. 16, 2014 file photo, lawyer and former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani calls for the dismissal of a lawsuit filed against video game giant Activision by former Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega outside Los Angeles Superior court in Los Angeles. During an appearance on CBS' "Face... (Associated Press) 
 
 FILE - In this Oct. 16, 2014 file photo, lawyer and former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani calls for the dismissal of a lawsuit filed against video game giant Activision by former Panamanian dictator... (Associated Press) ||||| Tweet with a location 
 
 You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more ||||| Following last week’s tragedies in Louisiana, Minnesota and Texas, New York City’s former Mayor Rudy Giuliani made some shocking comments, including stating that black children have a 99% chance of killing each other. 
 
 The reality is, blacks are killed by other black people a majority of the time, just as whites are killed by whites a majority of the time. 
 
 But what his words show is an appalling lack of understanding of the notion that the issue of fighting crime in black and brown neighborhoods must include the fact that police crime embellishes the chaos in those communities and must be dealt with as well. It is that repeated and documented pattern of profiling, excessive force and shootings by police that we see in our communities and not in others. If we are to ever solve the issue of crime, we must tackle all crime — including crime committed by those who wear a badge. 
 
 My organization, National Action Network, has dedicated over 25 years toward fighting for social justice and equality across the board. That struggle includes reducing crime and uplifting our communities on every level. In addition to holding gun buyback events, we’ve coordinated programs like “Occupy The Corner” in cities like Chicago in order to help diffuse shootings. The residents of that community, and others around the nation, fully understand the challenges facing them, which includes the manner in which law enforcement sometimes interacts with them. 
 
 Rudy Giuliani calls Black Lives Matter ‘inherently racist’ 
 
 We cannot have neighborhoods under siege by both those that may be doing criminal acts and by those that are supposed to be protecting citizens from danger. Society can no longer ignore the fact that policing in white communities is starkly different than it is in communities of color. 
 
 Former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani doesn't understand the impact that police crime has on neighborhoods of color, Sharpton says. 
 
 A clear example of this disparity is when the stop-and-frisk program was heavily touted and implemented in places like New York City. According to the NYCLU, a weapon was found only in 1.8% of blacks and Latinos who were frisked, but was found in 3.8% of whites who were frisked. 
 
 Despite stats like this, the number of stops of young black men exceeded the entire population of young black men in the city itself. That is just outrageous. When things like profiling, pulling people over disproportionately, searching people walking down the street excessively, locking people up unreasonably and shooting people unnecessarily are all realities, then we have a severe problem in this country. 
 
 We must have a sincere commitment to address crime not only on one side (while excusing crimes on your own side), but as it takes place whether at the hands of a citizen or someone in uniform. Blacks don’t make excuses about their communities, therefore police, officials and ex-officials shouldn’t make excuses for those officers that cross the line and abuse their power. 
 
 Mo. cop kills Black Lives Matter supporter after break-in 
 
 According to The Guardian’s data tracker, “The Counted,” 136 Black people have been killed by police in 2016 alone. Ask yourself, how many cops have gone to jail or even been remotely held accountable? 
 
 Philando Castile's death helped fuel rage throughout the nation. (Lavish Reynolds via Facebook) 
 
 Rather than choosing which crimes we want to focus on, there should be a total commitment to all crimes. To exclude alleged police abuse and misconduct is not the answer — it only adds to the problem. This isn’t about taking sides, but rather it is about having a society that’s crime free from both bad officers and bad citizens. Police should enforce the law, but they are not above it. 
 
 I have never been one that justifies black-on-black crime. I’ve preached at many funerals, including that of a 4-year-old who was shot and killed by a stray bullet. I have seen the anguish and pain in a parent’s eyes firsthand after such a tragedy. But I have also seen the same pain when a parent loses a loved one at the hands of those who were supposed to serve and protect them. I have stood alongside grieving mothers, fathers and grandparents who cannot comprehend how their child was shot and killed for reaching for a wallet, for simply walking down the street, for just driving home or a slew of other unfathomable and unjustifiable reasons. Just like we arrest and charge criminals, we must arrest and charge the bad cops so that there is accountability and fairness under the law. 
 
 Anytime someone says that you shouldn’t question police or the system, then the nation loses. We fight and march when there is an anti-gay killing in Orlando, when there is a black-on-black killing, when nine Church members are shot and killed in a hate crime and when police break the law or are alleged to have broken the law. 
 
 Castile’s fiancée calls into service honoring slain Dallas cops 
 
 If we genuinely want to improve relations between law enforcement and the communities they serve, then we must have the consistency to hold everyone responsible for his or her actions in order to heal society. Otherwise, we’re simply shifting blame and that is a delay tactic none of us can afford. 
 
 Sharpton is founder of the National Action Network. 
 
 Sign up for BREAKING NEWS Emails privacy policy Thanks for subscribing! ||||| Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani (R) says his criticism of the Black Lives Matter movement does not mean he is indifferent to black suffering. 
 
 “Don’t tell me I don’t care about black lives,” he said Monday on Fox News’s “Fox & Friends." "I had an uncle who died in the line of duty. I had uncles who went out every night and tried to protect black people and white people and all people. 
 
 ADVERTISEMENT 
 
 “A lot of the protection of this city of New York is for black people because 70 percent of the murders in New York City are black. So it has to be that way. I believe I saved a lot more black lives than Black Lives Matter.” 
 
 Giuliani also said he is not backing down from his charge that “black lives matter” is a fundamentally racist phrase. 
 
 “It is inherently racist because No. 1, it divides us,” he said. "All lives matter. All lives matter — black lives, white lives, all lives. 
 
 “No. 2, the Black Lives Matter never protests when every 14 hours someone is killed in Chicago, probably 70–80 percent of the time a black person. Where are they then? Where are they when the young black child is killed?” 
 
 Giuliani on Sunday said the phrase “Black Lives Matter” is both “anti-American” and “inherently racist.” 
 
 National debate is raging over the role of the Black Lives Matter movement following the fatal shooting of two African-American men by police in separate incidents last week.