Source: Multi-News

FILE - This May 13, 2013 file photo shows O.J. Simpson during an evidentiary hearing in Clark County District Court in Las Vegas. Simpson's lawyers submitted a supersized appeal May 21, 2014, asking the... (Associated Press) 
 
 FILE - This May 13, 2013 file photo shows O.J. Simpson during an evidentiary hearing in Clark County District Court in Las Vegas. Simpson's lawyers submitted a supersized appeal May 21, 2014, asking the... (Associated Press) 
 
 LAS VEGAS (AP) — O.J. Simpson's lawyers submitted a supersized appeal to the Nevada Supreme Court, seeking the former football star's release from prison and a new trial in his 2007 Las Vegas armed-robbery case. 
 
 The lawyers met a midnight Wednesday deadline to submit a request for the court to review Simpson's claim that 2008 trial in Las Vegas was tainted by his fame and notoriety following his 1995 acquittal in Los Angeles in the deaths of his ex-wife and her friend. 
 
 However, the document totaled 19,993 words, court spokesman Michael Sommermeyer said Thursday. That was some 43 percent longer than the 14,000-word limit the court had set. 
 
 It will be up to the seven justices to decide whether to accept it for filing and consideration. Until that time, the document hasn't been made public. The court hasn't decided whether to hear oral arguments. 
 
 Simpson, 66, is serving nine to 33 years in a northern Nevada prison after being found guilty of leading a group of armed men in a September 2007 confrontation with two sports memorabilia dealers at a Las Vegas casino hotel. He was convicted of kidnapping, armed robbery and other charges. He's not eligible for parole until late 2017. 
 
 The appeal stems from arguments rejected last year by Clark County District Judge Linda Marie Bell that Simpson's trial attorney botched Simpson's trial and first appeal to the state Supreme Court, the only appeals court in Nevada. 
 
 Simpson attorney Patricia Palm said the appeal ran long because she and attorneys Ozzie Fumo and Tom Pitaro were responding in detail to the judge's Nov. 26 ruling, which totaled 101 pages. 
 
 Palm said the state high court routinely accepts oversized filings in complex cases. She also submitted 36 appendices to the appeal brief. 
 
 Bell's ruling came after she held five days of hearings in Las Vegas on a 94-page petition that Palm filed in May 2012 seeking a new trial on 22 possible grounds. 
 
 The judge said she reviewed the entire Simpson court record and determined that evidence was overwhelming that Simpson orchestrated the armed kidnapping and robbery, and that Simpson's current attorneys failed to demonstrate how his former lawyer's actions changed the outcome of the case. 
 
 Clark County District Attorney Steve Wolfson said he was confident that Bell's ruling would be upheld. Wolfson's wife, former Clark County District Judge Jackie Glass, presided over Simpson's 2008 trial and sentencing. 
 
 Simpson claimed he was trying to retrieve from the memorabilia dealers items that had been stolen from him after his Los Angeles trial and a 1997 civil court a wrongful-death judgment that put him on the hook for $33.5 million to the estates of his ex-wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend, Ron Goldman. 
 
 The NFL hall of famer testified last year that he thought he had a right to get his own belongings back, and he never knew any of the men with him were carrying guns. 
 
 ___ 
 
 Find Ken Ritter on Twitter: http://twitter.com/krttr ||||| O.J. Simpson is asking the Nevada Supreme Court to reverse a judge’s ruling denying him a new trial in a 2007 robbery case, in an appeal filed in the wee hours Thursday. 
 
 Simpson is in the midst of serving a nine- to 33-year prison term after he was convicted of 10 charges for robbing two men of sports memorabilia in September 2007. He argued he was simply recovering his own property, including photographs, when he went to the Palace Station hotel room. 
 
 The appeal motion, written by defense lawyer Patricia Palm, is longer than the Supreme Court allows by about 5,000 words. The high court must approve the longer version, which it has done in the past in other cases. 
 
 Normally appeals are immediately posted on the Supreme Court’s website for public review, but Simpson’s had not posted Thursday because of the length. 
 
 The appeal has more than 30 appendices to it, the Supreme Court’s website shows. 
 
 In November, Judge Linda Bell rejected the notorious former football player’s contention that his trial lawyer in the robbery case, Yale Galanter, was ineffective, had financial and legal conflicts and misadvised the 66-year-old inmate. 
 
 Bell’s ruling came six months after a week-long hearing where Simpson testified Galanter told him he could legally take his property back and would represent him for free. 
 
 “All grounds in the petition lack merit and, consequently are denied,” Bell said in a 100-page decision. 
 
 Bell ruled Simpson “failed to demonstrate that counsel experienced an actual conflict of interest that substantially impacted counsel’s performance at trial … that the State withheld exculpatory evidence … that appellate and trial counsel were ineffective or that any deficient performance by counsel resulted in prejudice,” the ruling stated. 
 
 In her ruling, Bell said the evidence was overwhelming against Simpson and that there was no indication that it was a close verdict. 
 
 Meanwhile, Simpson is in the midst of serving one to six years on a weapons enhancement for the kidnapping count. He has four to 18 years left on his prison term on the remaining counts. 
 
 Simpson is imprisoned at Lovelock Correctional Center, about 100 miles northeast of Reno. 
 
 Inmate #1027820 has had a “positive record,” the Nevada Board of Parole Commissioners said in July, which included his participation in parole programs. 
 
 Following his Hall of Fame professional football career, Simpson became one of the most popular former athletes in America, regularly hawking products in humorous TV commercials or starring in movies, such as “The Naked Gun.” 
 
 That is, until Simpson was acquitted by a Los Angeles jury in 1995 of the 1994 deaths of his wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and Ronald Goldman in what was dubbed “the trial of the century.” 
 
 Testimony at the May hearing revealed that most of the items taken in the 2007 robbery were found to be the football player’s. The items were returned to Simpson and, unless sold, were not subject to satisfy a $33.5 million civil judgment against him for the deaths of his ex-wife and Goldman. 
 
 Contact reporter Francis McCabe at fmccabe@reviewjournal.com or 702-380-1039. Find him on Twitter: @fjmccabe