Source: Multi-News

This article is over 3 months old 
 
 Officials say ‘training error’ to blame for email featuring cat in pyjamas holding a plate of choc-chip biscuits 
 
 The US embassy in Canberra has apologised for a “training error” after distributing a fake meeting invitation, complete with a photo of a pyjama-wearing cat. 
 
 The email, titled “meeting”, featured a photo of a tabby cat wearing a blue Cookie Monster outfit and holding a plate of choc-chip biscuits, beneath the title “cat pyjama-jam”. 
 
 In the clear case of misdirected correspondence last week, the email also contained a section of Latin and recipients were given the option to hit an RSVP tab. 
 
 It is unknown how widely the email, sent by the US Department of State, was distributed. 
 
 US Mission to Australia public affairs counsellor Gavin Sundwall kept his apology lighthearted. 
 
 “Sorry to disappoint those of you who were hoping to attend this ‘cat pyjama-jam’ party, but such an event falls well outside our area of expertise,” he wrote in a follow-up email two days after the original. “It was a training error made by one of our new staff testing out our email newsletter platform.” 
 
 Sundwall said “strong new management controls” would be added to prevent a repeat of the mistake. ||||| We'd never get you to say sorry for sending an adorable cat picture. 
 
 But the U.S. Embassy in Canberra, Australia has apologised on behalf of the Department of State who did just that, accidentally sending a test email featuring a photo of a cat dressed in a Cookie Monster costume. 
 
 According to the Australian Associated Press, the photo was was titled "cat pajama-jam" and was sent within an email titled "meeting," as part of a fake meeting invitation sent by the Department of State to recipients. 
 
 It's been described as a "training error," and at least the U.S. Embassy saw the humour in it. 
 
 "Sorry to disappoint those of you who were hoping to attend this 'cat pajama-jam' party, but such an event falls well outside our area of expertise," U.S. Mission to Australia public affairs counsellor Gavin Sundwall wrote in a subsequent email two days later. 
 
 "It was a training error made by one of our new staff testing out our email newsletter platform." 
 
 Perhaps they needn't have apologised, 'cos it's a cute cat. 
 
 The US embassy in Australia accidentally sent out a cat photo instead of a meeting invite. https://t.co/NOHLA8RbjJ pic.twitter.com/NfqebepiIE — Josh Taylor (@joshgnosis) October 15, 2018 
 
 The cat appears to belong to a Melbourne woman, Jennifer Stewart, who dresses up her cats in onesies for her Instagram account that's actually called @my_furry_babies. 
 
 Sundwall said "strong management controls" would be implemented to ensure such an incident wouldn't happen again. 
 
 But let's face it, don't we all want to go to the cat pajama-jam party? 
 
 UPDATE: Oct. 15, 2018, 3:49 p.m. AEDT This article originally held the headline suggesting the U.S. Embassy had sent the email, when it was actually sent by the Department of State. The article has been updated to reflect this.