Source: Multi-News

Facebook raised the price range for its IPO to $34 to $38 a share, from $28 to $35 a share, in a sign of investor appetite for the offering. George Stahl has the latest on The News Hub. Photo: AFP/Getty Images. 
 
 Facebook Inc.'s coming initial public offering has set off a frenzy of anticipation among Main Street and Wall Street investors desperate to get their hands on the stock. 
 
 Late Monday, the social network raised the price range for its IPO to $34 to $38 a share, from $28 to $35 a share, in a sign of investor appetite for the offering. The Menlo Park, Calif., company's initial price range put Facebook's valuation at $77 billion to $96 billion, but that rises to $93 billion to $104 billion under the new price range as investor interest ramps up. 
 
 Facebook's coming initial public offering has set off a frenzy of anticipation among Main Street and Wall Street investors desperate to get their hands on the stock. Shayndi Raice has details on The News Hub. Photo: Bloomberg. 
 
 Those numbers have created high hopes for both individual and professional investors. The excitement has drawn in fledgling stock buyers such as 11-year-old Jade Supple of Rockville Centre, N.Y., whose father plans to bet money saved to put his daughter through college on Facebook shares, although he has doubts about the price. 
 
 Enlarge Image Close Scott Lewis for The Wall Street Journal Money manager Chris Baggini 
 
 Enlarge Image Close Supple Family Jade and Jim Supple 
 
 Enlarge Image Close Sandy Huffaker for The Wall Street Journal Grossmont High investment-club adviser Todd Benrud 
 
 In Berwyn, Pa., hedge-fund manager and mutual-fund manager Chris Baggini of Turner Investment Partners says he tracked Facebook closely and repeatedly called executives at Morgan Stanley or Goldman Sachs, which are helping to lead the IPO, to snag a spot in the social network's roadshow stop in Philadelphia last Wednesday. 
 
 Across the nation in El Cajon, Calif., technology teacher and investment-club supervisor Todd Benrud is trying to get his club at Grossmont High School into Facebook stock. "They use Facebook every day," Mr. Benrud said. Some students think it is "guaranteed to make money." 
 
 Sophisticated investors who can meet financial requirements have been able to trade limited shares of Facebook for some time on secondary markets. But the IPO will turn Facebook into a public company that anyone can own. 
 
 Many small investors are eager to grab Facebook at its issue price, hoping the shares will surge in value as IPOs frequently do on the first day. But Internet IPOs have had mixed success. Daily deals website Groupon Inc. has lost about 35% of its value since its Nov. 4 debut, while stock at professional network LinkedIn Corp. has gained nearly 150% since it started trading May 19. 
 
 Facebook still hasn't proven that its $3.7 billion in revenue and $1 billion in profits last year deserve such a lofty valuation. Last month, the company disclosed that its first-quarter profit and revenue declined from the fourth quarter of 2011, which it attributed to seasonal trends in advertising. A Facebook spokesman declined to comment. 
 
 Michael Belanger, a lawyer from Oklahoma City, invests his personal money in the stock market. But he will be skipping Facebook's IPO because he thinks its valuation is totally "out of whack." Scott Schermerhorn, chief investment officer of investment-management firm Granite Investment Advisors, says the hype around Facebook's IPO is going to keep his firm away. "It's a cult stock," he says. 
 
 Little of that skepticism is weighing on three investors, tracked by The Wall Street Journal since Facebook announced in February that it would go public. 
 
 * * * 
 
 Rockville Centre, N.Y.—Jim Supple was driving with his daughter Jade last autumn, when she turned to him and said, "Daddy, can I buy some of the Facebook company?" 
 
 Mr. Supple, 47, had been teaching Jade about investing in the stock market for years. He started putting money for her in stocks like eBay and Disney when she was a baby. But the request still took him aback. "How do you know about buying Facebook?" he asked. 
 
 "I saw in the news that they were going to be selling parts of the company," she responded. "Can we buy some?" 
 
 Since then, Mr. Supple has been trying to find a way to take $25,000 he has saved for her college fund and purchase Facebook stock. "She doesn't need this money for another eight years," says Mr. Supple. "If it goes the Google route, I'll be in good shape." 
 
 Although he thought Facebook was a strong investment, Mr. Supple had been burned before, having lost some money in a Ponzi scheme, he says. He wanted to be sure that he was being more careful this time before betting so much on one company. 
 
 On Jan. 17, Mr. Supple tried to dive in. Two former Facebook employees were selling 70,000 shares in an auction on SharesPost Inc., one of the secondary markets for Facebook shares. The bidding started at $31 a share. He bid $32.01. "Jim, I'm gonna be honest with you, you're not gonna get it, very rarely does it sell for the minimum," Mr. Supple says he was told by his SharesPost broker. 
 
 Mr. Supple works for a Manhattan-based company called SNAP Interactive that creates a software application that allows singles to go on Facebook and find dates. Over a Jan. 18 dinner of burgers and beer at the New York steakhouse Del Frisco's, Mr. Supple asked his boss, Cliff Lerner, what he thought about buying up Facebook in the secondary market. 
 
 "You know, there is a very high minimum to get into the secondary market," Mr. Lerner cautioned Mr. Supple. Mr. Supple said he could figure out a way, between his 401K and an IRA fund and the college savings, to squeeze together the $100,000 minimum recommended by SharesPost. "Am I out of my mind?" Mr. Supple asked Mr. Lerner. "No, I think you're gonna kill it in this thing," responded Mr. Lerner. 
 
 Mr. Supple lost the SharesPost auction. It closed on Jan. 20 for $34 a share, less than $2 above his bid. 
 
 Just two weeks later, Facebook filed for its IPO with the Securities and Exchange Commission, driving the price of secondary market shares up drastically. The next auction was $44 a share, too expensive for Mr. Supple. Mr. Supple turned his energy away from the secondary market and began plotting how to buy shares on the day of the IPO, or shortly after. 
 
 On April 9, just after the roadshow kicked off, Mr. Supple said he was getting concerned about the frenzy and rethinking his plan to buy on the day of the IPO. 
 
 "Here in New York, it's on every single news channel, it's in all the newspapers that the roadshow has started and [Facebook Chief Executive Mark] Zuckerberg was here in New York," he said at the time. "I'm going to sit on the sidelines on IPO day," Mr. Supple decided. "We're going to have to wait until the smoke clears." 
 
 * * * 
 
 El Cajon, Calif.—On Jan. 30, amid reports that Facebook would file for its IPO within days, high school senior Brandon Hyatt scrawled an exuberant message to the online forum of his investment club at Grossmont High School, under the heading "BUY FACEBOOK!!!!" 
 
 The note clued technology teacher and club supervisor Todd Benrud into the frenzy that would follow. When the club next met that Wednesday, Mr. Benrud faced some 10 teenagers who thought they could buy shares that day. 
 
 Every Monday and Wednesday at lunchtime, Mr. Benrud converts his technology classroom into the trading floor of the Charity Student Investment Project, a nonprofit student-run investment club. A live feed of a financial TV show fills the projection screen. Students each take a computer to research investments for their real-money pool of $2,900. 
 
 When Mr. Benrud called an initial vote on whether to pursue Facebook shares, every hand shot up, even after Mr. Benrud told students that they couldn't get shares immediately. Since the club's rules don't allow it to put more than 10% of their money into any one stock, they would only be able to buy a few shares, depending on where it was priced. 
 
 In an attempt to help the club buy at the IPO price, Mr. Benrud met with a Morgan Stanley broker in March and showed interest in giving the brokerage his retirement account. At the end of their hour-and-a-half meeting, he told the broker that he had one more question. He said the broker slumped his shoulders and said one word: "Facebook?" 
 
 The broker told Mr. Benrud that neither he nor the club had enough money to qualify. "It really took the wind out of their sails," Mr. Benrud says of his club members. "They immediately started asking, 'What else can we do?' " 
 
 Students began to get frustrated as the weeks wound on without more news of the IPO date. In mid-April, when Facebook said it would acquire Instagram, which makes a photo-sharing app, for $1 billion, several students questioned the deal. Antonio Robles, a junior in the club, lamented that Instagram "wasn't even making money" and wondered if investors would think that Mr. Zuckerberg had poor judgment. 
 
 Nonetheless, the students decided it was time to vote on whether or not to buy Facebook shares. A plan to buy two shares on the open market the morning of the IPO—no matter the price—and sell later that afternoon passed the club—eight in favor, one against, with one abstention. 
 
 The week before the roadshow, the students decided to hold a second vote—this time to buy two shares in the morning but sell only one in the afternoon, keeping the other indefinitely. The measure passed—six ayes to one abstention. 
 
 After hearing the week before the IPO that some Facebook shares would be available to small investors at the IPO price, Mr. Benrud made one last attempt to get IPO shares through the club's Wells Fargo broker but was told his club didn't qualify. 
 
 On Tuesday, Grossmont High School's Mr. Hyatt, the student who started the Facebook discussion, posted to his club's forum again, noting that Facebook's projected debut share price of $28 to $35 would let his club buy more than the two shares they planned on. (Facebook raised the price range on Monday.) The group ended up voting to buy up to four shares on the open market, depending on the price, and sell half of what they get the same afternoon. 
 
 "Every single person in the investment club has a Facebook" page, says junior Adam Sturgeon. "We relate to it." 
 
 * * * 
 
 Berwyn, Pa.—Chris Baggini, a hedge-fund and mutual-fund manager, was in New York meeting with clients and media on Feb. 1, the day Facebook would release a first glimpse at its financials. At about 9 in the morning, sitting in a booth in a posh dining room at the Royalton Hotel in midtown Manhattan, he gushed about the company's prospects. "Of course we're interested," he said. 
 
 Mr. Baggini's firm, Turner Investment Partners, in 2004 had managed to grab 700,000 shares of Google at its IPO and make a $10.5 million paper profit for investors on the first day of trading. The firm now manages about $13.4 billion in mutual funds, hedge funds and separate accounts for institutions. 
 
 Even before seeing Facebook's financials, Mr. Baggini thought it likely that Turner would be involved. He noted Americans spend 16% of their time online on Facebook and said that it had the chance of being the biggest IPO of the decade. 
 
 After hearing that Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs would set the roadshow schedule, he started to call and email bankers at both companies regularly. Neither gave hints on when the roadshow would begin, and Mr. Baggini said it felt like they were "walking on eggshells." 
 
 In late April, Mr. Baggini traveled to San Francisco to meet prospective clients. There, too, he was met by a bevy of questions about what the company thought about Facebook and whether they would get in on the IPO. 
 
 Facebook's S-1 filing brought a new round of questions. Mr. Baggini was pleased that its research and development expenditures had ticked up but wasn't sure why revenue growth per user had slowed. 
 
 "The question becomes the level of interest. Is Facebook marginally exciting, very exciting or extremely exciting?" he said. "Right now, I think we're at 'very exciting.' " 
 
 Mr. Baggini and around 25 other executives finally got their chance to meet Facebook executives Wednesday afternoon at the Westin hotel in downtown Philadelphia. Facebook chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg and chief financial officer David Ebersman showed up, but not Mr. Zuckerberg, which Mr. Baggini said didn't bother him. 
 
 He said that he hadn't yet decided on the price he would be willing to pay for shares. "We're still very excited and are likely to participate," he said. 
 
 More on the Facebook IPO 
 
 Previously 
 
 Write to Shayndi Raice at shayndi.raice@wsj.com 
 
 A version of this article appeared May 15, 2012, on page A1 in the U.S. edition of The Wall Street Journal, with the headline: In Facebook IPO, Frenzy, Skepticism. ||||| An investor holds prospectus explaining the Facebook stock after attending a show for Facebook Inc's initial public offering at the Four Season's Hotel in Boston, Massachusetts May 8, 2012. 
 
 NEW YORK/SAN FRANCISCO Facebook Inc increased the price range on its initial public offering an average of 14 percent to raise more than $12 billion, giving the world's No. 1 social network a valuation potentially exceeding $100 billion. 
 
 The company, founded eight years ago by Mark Zuckerberg in a Harvard dorm room, raised the target range to between $34 and $38 per share in response to strong demand, from $28 to $35, according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on Tuesday. 
 
 That would value Facebook at roughly $93 billion to $104 billion, rivaling the market capitalization of Internet powerhouses such as Amazon.com Inc, and exceeding that of Hewlett-Packard Co and Dell Inc combined. 
 
 Facebook also extended the time frame for its $1 billion acquisition of mobile app maker Instagram, projecting that the deal would close in 2012 instead of closing in the second quarter as it had previously indicated. 
 
 Facebook provided no reason for the change, though a source familiar with the matter told Reuters last week that the U.S. Federal Trade Commission has reached out to Google Inc and Twitter as part of the agency's standard review for deals of that size. 
 
 The price increase indicates intense market demand, which means Facebook's shares are likely to see a big pop on their first day of trading on the Nasdaq on Friday, analysts said. 
 
 "It's confounding but the evidence is that if companies raise the range, they will pop more," said Josef Schuster, founder of Chicago-based financial services firm IPOX Schuster LLC. "It signals that there is such a strong demand that it will create a momentum for other investors who want to jump on." 
 
 Facebook said in its latest filing that it arrived at the higher IPO price range after one week of marketing the offering - part of a cross-country "road show" in which CEO Zuckerberg has occasionally taken the stage to lay out his vision for the company's money-making potential and its top priorities. 
 
 The Facebook range hike, coupled with strong results from Internet and social media players Groupon Inc and China's RenRen Inc overnight, contributed to a dotcom rally on Wall Street on Tuesday. 
 
 Shares of Pandora Media Inc were up 6.9 percent at $10.50 in afternoon trading, while Zynga Inc was up 8.3 percent at $8.61. Groupon was up 13.7 percent at $13.33, while Renren gained 9.5 percent to $6.01. Yelp Inc stock was up 7.5 pct at $21.55. 
 
 In the biggest-ever IPO to emerge from Silicon Valley, Facebook will raise $12.1 billion based on the midpoint price of $36 and the 337.4 million shares on offer, or 12.3 percent of the company. 
 
 At this midpoint, Facebook would be valued at roughly 27 times its 2011 annual revenue, or 99 times earnings. When Google went public in 2004 at a valuation of $23 billion, it was valued at 16 times trailing revenue and 218 times earnings. Apple Inc, meanwhile, went public in 1980 at a valuation of 25 times revenue and 102 times earnings. 
 
 Wall Street had expected Facebook to increase its price range, with investors eager to get a slice of a strong consumer brand. The IPO road show began last week and has drawn crowds of investors from coast to coast. 
 
 Facebook plans to close the books on its IPO later on Tuesday, two days ahead of schedule, a source familiar with the deal told Reuters on Monday. It is scheduled to price its shares on Thursday and begin trading on the Nasdaq on Friday. 
 
 The IPO is already "well-oversubscribed," which is why the company will close its books earlier than expected, the source said. 
 
 Facebook's capital-raising target far outstrips other big Internet IPOs. Google raised just shy of $2 billion in 2004, while last year Groupon tapped investors for $700 million and Zynga raked in $1 billion. 
 
 The IPO comes amid concerns from some investors that Facebook has not yet figured out a way to make money from an increasing number of users who access the social network on mobile devices such as smartphones. Revenue growth from Facebook's online advertising business has also slowed in recent months. 
 
 Company executives met with prospective investors in Chicago on Monday and were slated to travel to Kansas City, Missouri, and Denver, before returning to Facebook's Menlo Park, California, headquarters. 
 
 A host of Wall Street banks are underwriting Facebook's offering, with Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs serving as leads. Facebook will trade on the Nasdaq under the symbol "FB." 
 
 (Reporting By Olivia Oran in New York and Alexei Oreskovic in San Francisco, additional reporting by Tanya Agrawal; Editing by Maureen Bavdek and Matthew Lewis)