Source: Multi-News

This bride-to-be said yes to the dress, but she should have said no to the show. 
 
 Now Alexandra Godino is suing cable network TLC’s reality show “Say Yes to the Dress​,​” ​accusing producers of reneging on a promise to delay airing the episode until after her May wedding. 
 
 “If I for one second, for one second, thought they would air this before my wedding I would never have done it — ever, ever, ever,” Godino fumed to The Post on Thursday. 
 
 “Not showing the world my gown before the wedding is very important, and in particular, I do not want my fiancée to see the gown before the wedding,” she says in her Manhattan Supreme Court suit. 
 
 Godino, of Las Vegas, is set to marry pro hockey player Jeff May before 300 guests at a lavish event in Palm Springs, Calif., on May 14​ ​— where her dress will be “one of the most important aspects of [her] entire wedding,” according to court papers. 
 
 The gown, by Lebanese designer Zuhair Murad, “has an element of surprise to it,” Godino confided, that will be ruined if the episode airs Friday night. 
 
 Godino, 27, was shopping in New York bridal emporium Kleinfeld’s with her mom when a show producer approached her. 
 
 The featured bride had bailed and the producer begged Godino to step in. 
 
 “Of course, I said no,” she recalled, “then my mom puppy dog-eyed me into doing it.” 
 
 Godino agreed to do it on the condition that her episode wouldn’t air until after the wedding. The producer agreed, the suit says, so Godino was shocked to find her piece would run on March 25. 
 
 “I hired a lawyer because, how many times have they done this to brides? This is a show about weddings, how they’re completely unsympathetic is mind blowing,” Godino seethed. 
 
 An attorney for the show’s production company admitted in court Thursday, “This is not he first time this issue has come up.” 
 
 But Jon Hollis, Half Yard Production’s lawyer, said Godino was told “point blank it’s going to air in the spring and we … don’t control the broadcast company.” 
 
 TLC attorney Theodore Tsekerides said it couldn’t be pulled because, “we have no full episode in the can.” 
 
 Godino’s lawyer Frank Taddeo, said his client spent $20,000 for her dream dress — and wasn’t compensated by the show. 
 
 She lost the emergency hearing to block the episode from airing but still plans to sue Discovery Communications and Half Yard for money damages. 
 
 Manhattan Judge Nancy Bannon ruled that while she understands the tradition of a bride not being seen in her gown, Godino signed away her rights in a contract. 
 
 “Things could be worse than being on a television show with a beautiful dress on,” Bannon said. ||||| Jon Hollis, the attorney for Half Yard Productions, which makes the show, said the show's managing producer, Nikki Taub, films 70 brides a season, and "this is not the first time the issue has come up" where brides don't want their gowns disclosed before their weddings. If they insist on a delay, they are not filmed, he said. ||||| 'Say Yes to the Dress' Bride Judge Says 'No' to Blocking Episode 
 
 'Say Yes to the Dress' Bride: Judge Says 'No' To Lawsuit