Source: Multi-News

Two dead, seven in custody after drug sting in Greater... 
 
 Two men are dead and seven others were arrested after undercover Houston police officers conducted a drug sting in the Greater East End on Wednesday night. 
 
 A Houston police narcotics team, the Drug Enforcement Administration, federal agents and SWAT officers arrived at a warehouse on Harrisburg and 77th streets at 10:30 p.m. By the end of the night, one would be killed in a shootout with police, authorities said, and another would die in police custody. 
 
 The undercover officers had arranged for the meeting, and nine men showed up in two cars. Eight of the men moved to go inside the warehouse, most of them showing guns, Chief Art Acevedo said. 
 
 GANG WAR: How to recognize the signs, symbols and tattoos of Houston's gangs 
 
 But when SWAT officers identified themselves, one of the men pulled out a gun and fired at an officer who was in full uniform, the chief said. 
 
 One of the officers fired off defensive shots, hitting the gunman, Acevedo said. He died at the scene. 
 
 Another man took off in a car, which crashed during a short pursuit. He then hid in a rock quarry at the Houston Ship Channel. 
 
 A K-9 unit found the man, and he was taken into custody before he went into cardiac arrest, Acevedo said. Paramedics immediately started CPR, and he was taken to Ben Taub Hospital, where he died. 
 
 The remaining seven men, who are believed to be documented gang members, surrendered without incident and will face unknown federal charges, Acevedo said. 
 
 “They’re obviously known to be a pretty violent crew,” he said. 
 
 The officer who fired the shot will be placed on administrative leave. 
 
 “I can just say that based on everything we’ve seen so far, the officers acted appropriately and in a reasonable manner,” Acevedo said. 
 
 NEWS WHEN YOU NEED IT: Text CHRON to 77453 to receive breaking news alerts by text message | Sign up for breaking news alerts delivered to your email here. ||||| Two people are dead after a major drug sting involving Houston police, SWAT and the DEA at a warehouse in east Houston.This happened just before 10 p.m. Wednesday at 77th Street and Harrisburg, where authorities said nine people, known to be violent and carry weapons, were expected to meet at the warehouse.Authorities said eight of the suspects, all carrying guns, went into the warehouse in what they thought would be a drug deal.After a couple of minutes, two of the suspects came out of the warehouse. One of them took off running and at that point, SWAT officers came out of a staging area and identified themselves. That's when police said one of the suspects opened fire."One of the SWAT officers immediately deployed defensive shots toward the suspect, striking the suspect. That suspect went down and the other suspect that fled before him jumped into a vehicle and took off," Houston Police Department Chief Art Acevedo said.Police said the suspect crashed the car, and ran into a rock quarry. He was eventually found by police dogs. When he was brought back to the scene, he started complaining about chest pains. Police said medics tried to revive the suspect but he died at the scene.The suspect who was shot to death has not been identified.There's no word yet on what charges the suspects will face.