Source: Multi-News

A stunt driver died on the Canadian set of "Deadpool 2" after attempting to do a stunt on a motorcycle, according to a tweet today from the Vancouver Police Department. 
 
 No other details about the accident were immediately available, including the identity of the driver. 
 
 “We are deeply saddened by the accident that occurred on the set of 'Deadpool 2' this morning," a spokesman for distributor 20th Century Fox told ABC News in a statement. "Our hearts and prayers are with the family, friends and colleagues of our crew member during this difficult time.” 
 
 Added star Ryan Reynolds: "We're heartbroken, shocked and devastated... but recognize nothing can come close to the grief and inexplicable pain her family and loved ones must feel in this moment. My heart pours out to them -- along with each and every person she touched in this world." 
 
 "Deadpool" star Ryan Reynolds confirmed in late-June that "Deadpool 2," which co-stars Josh Brolin, had begun production. Reynolds last week thanked the police department and people of Vancouver "for putting up with road closures and traffic delays" as a result of filming. 
 
 "Deadpool 2" is slated for a 2018 release. ||||| 'Deadpool 2' Stunt Person Killed On Set 
 
 Stunt Person Killed On 'Deadpool 2' Set in Motorcycle Crash 
 
 EXCLUSIVE 
 
 11:59 PM PT -- A spokesperson for 20th Century Fox tells us, "We are deeply saddened by the accident that occurred on the set of Deadpool 2 this morning. Our hearts and prayers are with the family, friends and colleagues of our crew member during this difficult time." 
 
 A stunt person was killed on the set of "Deadpool 2" when a motorcycle stunt went terribly wrong. 
 
 The rider, who was female, went airborne in Vancouver Monday morning during filming for the movie. Her bike crashed through the glass of a ground-floor studio inside Shaw Tower near Jack Poole Plaza. Witnesses say she never applied the brakes. Ryan Reynolds tweeted about the tragedy. 
 
 The rider -- whose identity is being withheld -- was pulled from the crash site and taken to the hospital by ambulance. Police taped off the area, and an investigation is underway. 
 
 It's the second major mishap involving stunts in as many days. Tom Cruise was badly injured during a failed stunt on the set of "Mission: Impossible 6." 
 
 Story developing ...