Source: Multi-News

SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea turned its anger on South Korea on Friday, warning the South Koreans they could suffer “physical countermeasures” for any enforcement of the tightened international sanctions meant to stop its ballistic missile and nuclear weapons activities. 
 
 The North Korean warning came a day after it bluntly threatened the United States, saying North Korea had no interest in talks on denuclearizing itself and would forge ahead with its missile and weapons development, with the goal of attaining the capability to hit American territory. North Korea framed the warning, including a threat to stage a third nuclear test, as a deterrent to what it called American hostility and efforts to isolate the country. 
 
 While the tone of the message was not unexpected after the United Nations Security Council’s unanimous decision this week on North Korea sanctions, the threats represent a new challenge to President Obama as he begins his second term, and to the incoming conservative president of South Korea, Park Geun-hye. She had signaled she would be more open to the North than the current president, but since her election last month she has said she will not tolerate the North’s nuclear program and will deal sternly with what she has called North Korean provocations. 
 
 In a statement issued in the name of North Korea’s Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of the Fatherland, which manages relations with South Korea, the North gave no hint of what countermeasures were envisioned against the South over enforcement of the sanctions. 
 
 While the North does not follow through on many of its threats, it does have a history of unexpected military attacks — most recently, its shelling of a border island in 2010 that left four South Koreans dead. It was also blamed for sinking a South Korean warship the same year, leaving 46 sailors dead, despite North Korean denials. 
 
 Those two episodes were among the most serious in decades between the two Koreas, dispelling Washington’s desire to engage North Korea in serious negotiation. While calling for a vigorous enforcement of United Nations sanctions, Glyn Davies, Washington’s special envoy on North Korea, also appealed Thursday to the North’s new leader, Kim Jong-un, not to miss opportunities for a new beginning, stressing that Washington could not improve ties with the North without progress in inter-Korean relations. 
 
 North Korea’s outburst against South Korea on Friday was the latest installment of a verbal barrage it started after the Security Council on Tuesday adopted a resolution condemning a Dec. 12 rocket launching by the North. The resolution called the launching a violation of earlier United Nations resolutions banning it from testing ballistic missile technology, and called for tightening sanctions against the country. Especially notable was that China, the longtime North Korean protector and advocate, voted for the resolution. 
 
 Referring to the South Koreans, North Korea said: “If the puppet group of traitors takes a direct part in the U.N. ‘sanctions,’ the D.P.R.K. will take strong physical countermeasures against it,” using the acronym for its official name, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. “ ‘Sanctions’ mean a war and a declaration of war against us.” 
 
 The United Nations resolution was the fifth against the North for its rocket and nuclear programs since 1993. It calls for tightening existing sanctions, including expanding a travel ban on North Korean officials and broadening the means for United Nations member nations to intercept and confiscate cargo headed for the North. 
 
 Ms. Park’s office said Friday that the president-elect would soon send a high-level delegation to Washington for a policy consultation at which North Korea was expected to be a focus of discussion. 
 
 The United Nations sanctions and the North’s angry reactions dissipated early hopes that changes of leadership in the North, the South and in the Obama administration would open the way for easing tensions. North Korea, which has lived through American-led trade embargoes, considers itself a small yet proud nation struggling to maintain its independence in the face of an “imperialist” plot to erase it from the earth. It has typically called any new round of American-inspired sanctions a declaration of war. 
 
 For the United States, a new entanglement over North Korea could distract from the American focus on pressuring Iran over its disputed nuclear program, which the Iranians say is peaceful but which the West suspects is meant to develop nuclear weapons capability. Talks aimed at resolving that dispute are stalled. 
 
 Some strategic weapons policy analysts suggested that North Korea’s defiant tone, and the relatively muted American response, had set an example for Iran by demonstrating what can be achieved when an American adversary is armed with nuclear weapons. Iranian leaders, like North Korea’s Kim family, view America as a nuclear-armed bully that respects only the threat of force. 
 
 Jeffrey Lewis, a nonproliferation expert at the Monterey Institute of International Studies in Monterey, Calif., said he feared that North Korea was now intent on demonstrating the ability to produce a far more powerful nuclear weapon than the two relatively small nuclear devices it had tested so far. 
 
 “If you think international politics is basically about power and that power is basically about armaments, then having a small number of fission devices is not good enough,” he said. “You want big nuclear devices.” (American intelligence officials believe North Korea has enough plutonium for roughly 6 to 10 weapons.) 
 
 Others dismissed the idea that Iran is taking any political cues from North Korea. They noted that Iran remained a signatory to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and that Iranian leaders had repeatedly asserted that they had no interest in nuclear weapons. 
 
 “They see North Korea is starving and isolated with no resources whatsoever,” said Gary G. Sick, an American academic and Iran expert who served on the National Security Council under the Ford, Carter and Reagan administrations. He called the connectivity on the nuclear issue between Iran and North Korea “a Western argument — I’ve never seen anybody in Iran make that argument.” ||||| South Korea's new president will not tolerate North Korean provocations but will continue to push for dialogue with Pyongyang, a special envoy to President-elect Park Geun-hye said just hours after the North's top governing body declared it would continue atomic tests and rocket launches. 
 
 In this Jan. 24, 2013 photo, students walk toward Pothong River in Pothong District, Pyongyang, North Korea with the Ryugyong Hotel seen in the background, second right. The banner calls on the people... (Associated Press) 
 
 FILE - In this Dec. 12, 2012 file image made from video, North Korea's Unha-3 rocket lifts off from the Sohae launching station in Tongchang-ri, North Korea. North Korea's top governing body warned Thursday,... (Associated Press) 
 
 FILE - In this Dec. 21, 2012 file image made from video, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un speaks at a banquet for rocket scientists in Pyongyang, North Korea. North Korea's top governing body warned Thursday,... (Associated Press) 
 
 Park is strongly urging North Korea to refrain from conducting a nuclear test that could only worsen the tensions on the Korean Peninsula in the wake of a provocative long-range rocket launch in December, envoy Rhee In-je told The Associated Press and selected news outlets in Davos, Switzerland. 
 
 "President-elect Park makes it clear that North Korea's nuclear ambitions and further provocations against the South will not be tolerated," Rhee said on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum on Thursday. "In particular, she strongly urges North Korea to refrain from further worsening the situation by conducting a third nuclear test." 
 
 But Park, who takes office next month, wants to leave the window open to constructive dialogue with Pyongyang and will continue to provide food and medical aid as part of a "trust-building" policy for the two Koreas. "It is a gradual process based on mutual trust and respect, which can begin with keeping promises," he said. 
 
 She also advocates returning to the six-nation disarmament negotiations, Rhee said. North Korea walked away from those talks in 2009 and has said future disarmament talks are out off the table. 
 
 On Tuesday, the U.N. Security Council voted unanimously to condemn North Korea's Dec. 12 rocket launch as a violation of a ban against missile activity. The council, including Pyongyang ally China, expanded sanctions against the regime. 
 
 North Korea's National Defense Commission responded Thursday by declaring that the regime is prepared to conduct a nuclear test in defiance of U.N. punishment, and it made clear that its long-range rockets are designed to carry not only satellites but also warheads aimed at striking the United States. 
 
 The commission, North Korea's top governing body led by leader Kim Jong Un, pledged to keep launching satellites and rockets and to conduct a nuclear test as part of a "new phase" of combat with the United States, which it blames for leading the U.N. bid to punish Pyongyang. It said a nuclear test was part of "upcoming" action but did not say exactly when or where it would take place. 
 
 "We do not hide that a variety of satellites and long-range rockets which will be launched by the DPRK one after another and a nuclear test of higher level which will be carried out by it in the upcoming all-out action, a new phase of the anti-U.S. struggle that has lasted century after century, will target against the U.S., the sworn enemy of the Korean people," the commission said, referring to North Korea by its official name, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 
 
 U.S. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said he has seen no outward sign that North Korea will follow through soon on its plan to conduct a test. But that doesn't mean preparations aren't taking place. 
 
 "They have the capability, frankly, to conduct these tests in a way that make it very difficult to determine whether or not they are doing it," Panetta told reporters in Washington. 
 
 North Korea claims the right to build nuclear weapons as a defense against the United States, its Korean War foe. 
 
 Their bitter three-year war ended in a truce, not a peace treaty, in 1953, and left the Korean Peninsula divided by the world's most heavily fortified demilitarized zone. The U.S. leads the U.N. Command that governs the truce and stations more than 28,000 troops in ally South Korea, a presence that North Korea cites as a key reason for its drive to build nuclear weapons. 
 
 North Korea is estimated to have stored up enough weaponized plutonium for four to eight bombs, according to scientist Siegfried Hecker, who visited the North's Nyongbyon nuclear complex in 2010. 
 
 In October, an unidentified spokesman at the National Defense Commission claimed that the U.S. mainland was within missile range. And at a military parade last April, North Korea showed off what appeared to be an intercontinental ballistic missile. 
 
 In 2009, Pyongyang declared that it would begin enriching uranium, which would give North Korea a second way to make atomic weapons. 
 
 The National Defense Commission's allusion to a "higher level" nuclear test most likely refers to a device made from highly enriched uranium, said Cheong Seong-chang, an analyst at the private Sejong Institute in South Korea. Experts say North Korea must keep testing its atomic devices so it can make them small enough to mount as nuclear warheads onto long-range missiles. 
 
 North Korea tested atomic devices in 2006 and 2009 after receiving U.N. condemnation for launching long-range rockets. 
 
 The U.S. envoy on North Korean issues, Glyn Davies, urged Pyongyang not to explode an atomic device. 
 
 "Whether North Korea tests or not, it's up to North Korea. We hope they don't do it. We call on them not to do it," he told reporters in Seoul after meeting Thursday with South Korean officials. "It will be a mistake and a missed opportunity if they were to do it." 
 
 White House spokesman Jay Carney on Thursday said North Korea's aggressive stance is unnecessary and warned against any further testing. 
 
 "North Korea's statement is needlessly provocative and a test would be a significant violation of United Nations Security Council resolutions," he said. "Further provocation would only increase Pyongyang's isolation, and its continued focus on its nuclear and missile program is doing nothing to help the North Korean people." 
 
 He said the recent U.N. resolution is a "strong message of the international community's opposition to North Korean provocations and these tightened sanctions will impede the growth of weapons of mass destruction programs in North Korea and the United States will be taking additional steps in that regard." 
 
 Carney did not elaborate on what those steps might be. 
 
 In Beijing, chief North Korea ally China urged restraint, but declined to directly criticize the North's actions. 
 
 "To maintain peninsular peace and stability and achieve denuclearization is conducive to the interests of all sides." Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters Thursday. 
 
 "The situation now is sensitive and complicated. We hope all sides can stay calm, be careful what they say and do, and avoid escalating tensions," Hong said. 
 
 ___ 
 
 Associated Press writers Jean H. Lee in Seoul, Matthew Pennington in Washington and Christopher Bodeen in Beijing contributed to this report. Follow AP's Korea bureau chief at http://www.twitter.com/newsjean.