Source: Multi-News

CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share PRESIDENT GEORGE H.W. BUSH IN THE HOSPITAL Health of Former President, First Lady Improves | 0:39 Former President George H.W. Bush is set to be moved from intensive care unit after doctors report health improvements. His wife, former first lady Barbara Bush, has been discharged from the same Texas hospital. (Jan. 23) AP 1 of 7 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share PRESIDENT GEORGE H.W. BUSH IN THE HOSPITAL Former Pres. Bush, wife improving at hospital | 1:09 A spokesman for the Bush family says the 41st president George H.W. Bush, and his wife, Barbara Bush, are 'on an upswing' as they're being treated for illnesses at Houston Methodist Hospital. (Jan. 19) AP 2 of 7 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share PRESIDENT GEORGE H.W. BUSH IN THE HOSPITAL Bush spokesman talks hospitalization | 1:34 Former President George H.W. Bush and his wife, Barbara, remain hospitalized in Houston, where he was in intensive care for pneumonia, and she was being watched after complaining of fatigue and coughing. (Jan. 19) AP 3 of 7 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share PRESIDENT GEORGE H.W. BUSH IN THE HOSPITAL Obama: 'Prayers' and 'love' to George H.W. and Barbara Bush | 0:40 During his final press conference, President Obama expressed well wishes for both George H.W. and Barbara Bush who were hospitalized on the same day. USA TODAY NETWORK 4 of 7 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share PRESIDENT GEORGE H.W. BUSH IN THE HOSPITAL George H.W. Bush in ICU, Barbara Bush also hospitalized | 0:37 Former President George H.W. Bush and wife Barbara Bush have been hospitalized due to separate health issues. USA TODAY 5 of 7 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share PRESIDENT GEORGE H.W. BUSH IN THE HOSPITAL Former President George H.W. Bush hospitalized | 1:06 The former president's spokesman says the 92-year-old is in stable condition. USA TODAY NETWORK 6 of 7 CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share PRESIDENT GEORGE H.W. BUSH IN THE HOSPITAL George H.W. Bush showed how to graciously concede the presidency | 1:22 Bush 41 may be the classiest presidential loser in history. Video provided by Newsy Newslook 7 of 7 Last VideoNext Video Health of Former President, First Lady Improves 
 
 Former Pres. Bush, wife improving at hospital 
 
 Bush spokesman talks hospitalization 
 
 Obama: 'Prayers' and 'love' to George H.W. and Barbara Bush 
 
 George H.W. Bush in ICU, Barbara Bush also hospitalized 
 
 Former President George H.W. Bush hospitalized 
 
 George H.W. Bush showed how to graciously concede the presidency 
 
 Former president George H.W. Bush and his wife, Barbara Bush, left, speak March 29, 2015, before a college basketball regional final game between Gonzaga and Duke, in the NCAA basketball tournament in Houston. (Photo: David J. Phillip, AP) 
 
 HOUSTON — Former first lady Barbara Bush, cleared a day ago to leave the hospital where she has been a patient since midweek this past week, was discharged Monday, her doctors said in a morning press conference. 
 
 Since Jan. 14, her husband, former president George H.W. Bush, has been in intensive care with bacterial pneumonia at Houston Methodist Hospital, and she was hospitalized Wednesday with fatigue and coughing that later was diagnosed as viral bronchitis. He is expected to remain in the hospital but move from the ICU sometime Monday. 
 
 "He is sitting up and watching TV and anxiously awaiting his favorite oyster stew for lunch. He’s on minimal oxygen, joking and laughing with the nurses and doctors," said Dr. Amy Mynderse, a hospitalist at Houston Methodist. A hospitalist works in internal medicine but exclusively at a medical center, working with a person's primary care physician. 
 
 Both of the Bushes are in their 90s: The former president is 92, and his wife is 91. 
 
 Because the former president has bounced back so well, his doctors expect that he could leave the hospital as early as Friday, said Dr. Clint Doerr, his pulmonologist or lung specialist. But more likely will be a discharge over the weekend or next week. 
 
 Both Bushes are eager to return home in time for the Super Bowl, the doctors said. The New England Patriots and the Atlanta Falcons play Feb. 5 in Houston, and the family's spokesman, Jim McGrath, said Sunday that the couple want to attend the game. 
 
 “They kind of get after each other if one of them is being a noncompliant patient. They take care of each other.” Dr. Amy Mynderse, Houston Methodist Hospital 
 
 They watched the inauguration together with their son Neil and his wife on a TV in the former president's room but refrained from political commentary, the doctors said. 
 
 Back in September, the elder Bush told Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, daughter of the late Robert F. Kennedy and a former Maryland lieutenant governor, that he couldn't back the GOP nominee, Donald Trump, and instead would vote for Democrat Hillary Clinton in November. He and Barbara Bush have not commented on their votes. 
 
 "She's back to her normal self," Mynderse said of Barbara Bush. 
 
 Barbara Bush's doctors allowed the former first lady to spend much of her time by her husband's side though she did have her own room outside of intensive care, the doctors said. The Bushes have been married for 72 years, the longest of any presidential couple in U.S. history. 
 
 "She's been sitting at his bedside getting most of her medications" as they watched TV, Mynderse said. And each has been encouraging the other through the sometimes tedious but necessary treatments. 
 
 "They kind of get after each other if one of them is being a noncompliant patient," the hospitalist said. "They take care of each other." 
 
 Although the former president is 92 and has a form of Parkinson's disease that keeps him from walking, both doctors stressed that he is a strong man for his age. 
 
 "Any time you hear about a 92-year-old with a breathing situation that requires intubation, that's a serious situation," Mynderse said. "He's also a very strong person. He's not your average 92-year-old." 
 
 Intubation is more serious than receiving supplemental oxygen via a tube in the nose. The former president continues to receive some supplemental oxygen now, and a device that's clipped onto many hospital patients' fingers allows doctors to monitor the dissolved oxygen in a person's blood easily. 
 
 During an intubation, a breathing tube is inserted into the windpipe, generally through the mouth, to open up the airway and allow a ventilator to be hooked up. 
 
 George H.W. Bush, vice president under Ronald Reagan and president for one term from 1989 to 1993, was put on a ventilator because of his breathing difficulties and at one point had a procedure to clear his bronchial tubes, the doctors said. He also has been receiving intravenous antibiotics. 
 
 "It doesn't take much from a respiratory standpoint to get into trouble," Doerr said. His Parkinson's did not play a role in his catching pneumonia. 
 
 The elder president Bush was hospitalized in July 2015 after he broke a bone in his neck during a fall at his Kennebunkport, Maine, summer home. He also was hospitalized around Christmas 2014 in Houston for shortness of breath, and in 2012 he was hospitalized in Houston for two months including Christmas because of bronchitis and a persistent cough. 
 
 As the former president responded to treatment this time, the help that the ventilator was providing was decreased, Doerr said. Before the tube was removed from his throat, the machine was at its lowest setting, essentially natural breathing with the option of additional assistance if necessary. 
 
 "We did not see a rebound in difficulty breathing ... or a reaccumulation of things in his airways," the pulmonologist said. 
 
 Both doctors were struck by the humility of the couple who not only have occupied the White House but also are parents to former president George W. Bush and former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush. 
 
 "They're truly very humble people," Mynderse said. "He just doesn't feel like he is, he doesn't understand how loved he is — her, too." 
 
 Follow KHOU-TV on Twitter: @KHOU 
 
 Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/2jQLcFC ||||| FILE - In this Nov. 6, 1997, file photo, former President George H.W. Bush hugs his wife, Barbara, after speaking at the dedication of the George Bush Presidential Library in College Station, Texas. The... (Associated Press) 
 
 FILE - In this Nov. 6, 1997, file photo, former President George H.W. Bush hugs his wife, Barbara, after speaking at the dedication of the George Bush Presidential Library in College Station, Texas. The Bushes were married Jan. 6, 1945, and have had the longest marriage of any presidential couple in... (Associated Press) 
 
 FILE - In this Nov. 6, 1997, file photo, former President George H.W. Bush hugs his wife, Barbara, after speaking at the dedication of the George Bush Presidential Library in College Station, Texas. The Bushes were married Jan. 6, 1945, and have had the longest marriage of any presidential couple in... (Associated Press) FILE - In this Nov. 6, 1997, file photo, former President George H.W. Bush hugs his wife, Barbara, after speaking at the dedication of the George Bush Presidential Library in College Station, Texas. The... (Associated Press) 
 
 HOUSTON (AP) — Former first lady Barbara Bush was discharged from a hospital Monday while former President George H.W. Bush is expected to be moved from the hospital's intensive care unit soon. 
 
 The 92-year-old former president was struggling to breathe when he was admitted to the Houston Methodist Hospital Jan. 14, and had since been treated for pneumonia in the intensive care unit. Ninety-one-year-old Barbara Bush was suffering from bronchitis and entered the same hospital Wednesday. 
 
 Two doctors who have been treating the Bushes, Dr. Amy Mynderse and Dr. Clint Doerr, talked about the Bushes medical treatment during a news conference at the hospital. 
 
 Mynderse said the former president had been sitting up and watching television, describing him as "not your average 92-year-old." 
 
 She said Mrs. Bush has been discharged and that "she is back to her normal self." 
 
 Bush family spokesman Jim McGrath said Sunday that the former president's vital signs were normal and that doctors hoped he could be moved out of intensive care in the next day or so. 
 
 At one point during the former president's stay, doctors inserted a breathing tube and a ventilator was employed to assist his breathing. The tube was removed Friday. 
 
 McGrath said Mrs. Bush was given the option of leaving the hospital Sunday, but that she opted to stay overnight to continue her recovery and be close to her husband. 
 
 The Bushes thanked "their well-wishers for their kindness, and especially their prayers," McGrath said. 
 
 The couple's 72-year marriage is the longest of any presidential couple in American history.