Source: Multi-News

Tweet with a location 
 
 You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more ||||| Kate Middleton is the latest beauty to grace the cover of British Vogue, and she looks absolutely stunning doing so. 
 
 In her first-ever magazine shoot, the Duchess of Cambridge is fittingly fronting “Vogue’s 100 Years,” which celebrates a century of covering all things fashion and celebrity. 
 
 View photos 
 
 WATCH: Happy 5th Wedding Anniversary to Kate Middleton and Prince William: A Look Back At Their Royal Marriage 
 
 The royal beauty was photographed by Josh Olins in Norfolk, England, where she and her husband, Prince William, have a 10-bedroom country home, Anmer Hall. 
 
 Her cover look is perfectly country chic, from the beautiful brown suede jacket paired and white button-down to her forest green wide-brimmed hat. 
 
 View photos 
 
 WATCH: Princess Charlotte and Prince George Are as Cute as Ever In New Royal Family Photo 
 
 In a second photo revealed by the magazine, the 34-year-old mom-of-two is all smiles as she leans over a wooden fence in a simple red-and-back striped long-sleeve sweater, her hair falling naturally around her shoulders. 
 
 View photos 
 
 Vogue also revealed that two of the eight photographs from the upcoming June issue will be featured in the National Portrait Gallery’s #Vogue100: A Century of Style portrait series in London. 
 
 The centenary issue hits stands May 5. Middleton will visit the National Portrait Gallery on Wednesday. 
 
 NEWS: Kate Middleton, Prince William and Prince Harry Team Up in Mental Health PSA 
 
 Middleton is well-known for having an incredible sense of fashion, so it’s only fitting that she’s helping honor Vogue’s major milestone. In fact, she showed off a series of gorgeous looks during her and Prince William’s royal trip to India and Bhutan earlier this month, including a beautiful orange gown on their last night in Bhutan. 
 
 Get a good look at the dress in the video below. 
 
 Related Articles ||||| Princess Kate Covers Vogue! See the Radiant Photos 
 
 Josh Olins 
 
 In what they describe as a "landmark" photoshoot, British Vogue has unveiled portraits of Princess Kate , for the magazine's centenary issue, and several of the photos will be displayed in the National Portrait Gallery starting this weekend.The shoot, by photographer Josh Olins and set in Norfolk's English countryside, features Kate in "casual clothes rather than adopting a more formal approach," the magazine said in a statement.Two of Olins' portraits will be on display at the gallery, in the Vogue 100: A Century of Style exhibit, beginning Sunday. Kate, 34, has been the patron of the gallery since 2012, soon after her wedding to Prince William "Josh has captured the Duchess exactly as she is – full of life, with a great sense of humor, thoughtful and intelligent, and in fact, very beautiful," Nicholas Cullinan, director of the National Portrait Gallery, said in a press release.British Vogue's editor-in-chief, Alexandra Shulman, said this project had been one of her "greatest ambitions for the magazine.""I'm delighted the Duchess agreed to work with us and the National Portrait Gallery, and as a result of this unique collaboration we have a true celebration of our centenary as well as a fitting tribute to a young woman whose interest in both photography and the countryside is well known," Shulman said in the release.Kate shared that delight, a spokesperson said in the release: "The Duchess was delighted to play a part in celebrating the centenary of an institution that has given a platform to some of the most renowned photographers in this country's history. 
 
 
 
 
 
 "She is incredibly grateful to the team at Vogue and at the National Portrait Gallery for asking her to take part. She would like to thank Josh Olins for being such a pleasure to work with. The Duchess had never taken part in a photography shoot like this before." 
 
 
 
 
 
 Josh Olins 
 
 Kate will get a chance to see the portraits first-hand when she visits the National Portrait Gallery on Wednesday.The full shoot will also be available in June's centenary issue of British Vogue, on sale Thursday, May 5. ||||| The British edition of Vogue celebrated its centenary issue with something of a royal coup Saturday, revealing it had landed the Duchess of Cambridge’s first-ever magazine cover shoot. The magazine’s June issues features seven new photographs of the 34-year-old royal taken by British photographer Josh Olins in January in the Norfolk countryside where the Cambridges live. 
 
 The striking pictures are the result of a unique collaboration between the magazine and Britain’s National Portrait Gallery, which will display two of the portraits in its exhibition Vogue 100: A Century of Style. A keen photographer herself, the duchess is patron of the National Portrait Gallery and will view the exhibition on Wednesday. 
 
 By choosing British Vogue for her first-ever cover Kate is following in famous footsteps. Princess Diana famously graced the cover of the magazine four times. Her final cover, taken by photographer Patrick Demarchelier, was in 1997, the year of her death. Another Vogue cover shot of the late princess in black and white and wearing a tiara, also taken by Demarchelier, features in the National Portrait Gallery exhibition as well. 
 
 Kate’s cover shoot is set to be equally memorable. Styled by one of the magazine’s senior style directors Lucinda Chambers, Olins’s shoot captured the duchess at her most natural. Smiling radiantly and with minimal makeup, she looks entirely at ease in the Norfolk countryside. 
 
 “This was the duchess’s first sitting for a magazine and she was a joy to work with, a natural,” said Olins, who was chosen by the magazine, the National Portrait Gallery, and Kensington Palace. The British-born, New York-based photographer works regularly for Vogue and has shot campaigns for leading fashion houses including Calvin Klein and Louis Vuitton. 
 
 A source at the magazine said that Kate worked closely with the editor and style director on the shoot eschewing glamour for country chic when it came to the wardrobe. On the cover she is seen wearing a Burberry trench coat and a £293 white jacquard shirt by the same fashion house. The fetching green hat, provided by the fashion team, is by vintage store Beyond Retro. In another of the series of pictures Kate is photographed resting against a wooden gate in front of a stone farm building in a pair of Burberry £695 stretch boot cut trousers and a £35 striped black and red jersey top by Petit Bateau. The picture was the last to be taken during the day. 
 
 According to Alexandra Shulman, the magazine’s editor in chief, who was on the shoot: “The Duchess watched how Josh worked with the light and asked a lot of questions. It was her choice to shoot that picture where she is leaning over the gate because the late afternoon sun was particularly beautiful.” 
 
 In the picture the couple’s Landrover Defender can just be seen. While William’s security team drives a fleet of luxury Discovery Landrovers the Duchess prefers to drive around in the less-conspicuous Defender. 
 
 Shulman said that the shoot took place all day, “in a field somewhere down several tracks. There were some farm buildings available for the crew and to use as a dressing room. We were very lucky with the weather and had bright sun for most of the time.” 
 
 According to a spokesman at Kensington Palace, Wednesday will be “the first time” Kate has seen the images suggesting she did not have final approval over the portfolio of images which do not appear to have been heavily airbrushed. ||||| And for the first time the Duchess, 34, allowed a professional make-up artist to prepare her for the photographer, giving her a fresher, more youthful look. 
 
 Vogue hired make-up artist Sally Branka, who persuaded the Duchess to do without her usual black eyeliner and heavy blusher, with striking results. 
 
 The pictures were taken by Josh Olins, one of the world’s leading fashion photographers, in a collaboration between British Vogue and the National Portrait Gallery. 
 
 Two of Mr Olins’ pictures will hang in the Gallery from today as part of the Vogue 100: A Century of Style exhibition, and seven images, including the cover, will appear in the June issue of the magazine. 
 
 The Duchess, who is Patron of the National Portrait Gallery, will see the exhibition for herself on Wednesday on an official visit to the Gallery. 
 
 She is the most senior member of the Royal family to appear on the cover of the magazine since Princess Diana, who featured on four covers, including a posthumous appearance in October 1997. ||||| Those chubby little cheeks! Princess Charlotte is set to celebrate her first birthday on Monday, May 2, and the tiny royal will have a premiere photographer on hand to capture the monumental day: her mom, the Duchess of Cambridge. 
 
 In a series of newly released photographs of Charlotte, taken by Kate, 34, Kensington Palace’s youngest resident proves that she’s grown up a lot over the last year. 
 
 HRH The Duchess of Cambridge 
 
 "The duke and duchess are very happy to be able to share these important family moments and hope that everyone enjoys these lovely photos as much as they do," the palace tells Us in a statement. 
 
 HRH The Duchess of Cambridge 
 
 The fashionable tot wears two different tiny knit cardigans in the photos — one cream and one pink — over matching baby blue and baby pink dresses and tights by Amaia, a Spanish clothing line for kids. She even wears a little bow in her carefully brushed hair. 
 
 
 
 In one image, she shows off her large doe eyes as she scrambles over a wicker chair; two others show the tot standing upright and smiling excitedly while doing it. 
 
 HRH The Duchess of Cambridge 
 
 One photo, taken in the garden, has the family dog, Lupo, playing on the grass in the background as she pushes along a handmade baby walker full of colorful blocks, retailing at £49 from the Toy Centre in Oxfordshire. 
 
 The images were all taken by the duchess at the royal couple's Anmer home in Norfolk. 
 
 HRH The Duchess of Cambridge 
 
 Last month, it was Charlotte’s older brother, Prince George, who was getting all the attention after he greeted President Barack and Michelle Obama in a monogrammed bathrobe during their visit to the palace. 
 
 His $39 personalized bathrobe, from online retailer My 1st Years, sold out within minutes of the photos being released. 
 
 
 
 Can't get enough of Us? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter packed with the latest celeb news, hot pics and more! 
 
 
 
