Source: Multi-News

Getty Fourth Estate Put on Your Big-Boy Pants, Journos President Trump’s lies don’t call for extraordinary media measures. Just do your jobs. 
 
 Extraordinary times—and we are living in an extraordinary time—do not necessarily call for extraordinary measures on the part of the press, as comforting as a full berserking might make many of us feel. The opening minutes of the Trump administration—the lies told by press secretary Sean Spicer about the size of the inauguration crowd, the president’s whopper at CIA headquarters claiming the media made up his feud with the agency, presidential counselor Kellyanne Conway’s notion that “alternative facts” support Trump’s imaginary numbers—have stirred bladder-emptying panic among some in the press corps. 
 
 But the Trump administration cannot by itself pollute the river of truth with its bogus tweets, its press conferences in which no questions are allowed, or by Conway jibber jabber. Extraordinary times like these call for normal measures: The meticulous, aggressive, and calm presentation of the news. One of our examples should be the Washington Post’s David Fahrenthold. Fahrenthold could have assessed the Trump candidacy by filling Twitter with angry comments or by setting himself on fire. Instead, as everybody knows, he excavated the self-dealing garbage dump that was the Trump Foundation as if he were an archeologist and published a series of patient stories that resulted in a penalty against the foundation and its planned closure. 
 
 Story Continued Below 
 
 Reporters tend to be emotional souls, which gives them an advantage when hauling a load of bricks up a ladder for their ungrateful, demanding editors and indifferent readers. Emotion fuels their sense of justice and motivates them to keep on keeping on. CNN’s Brian Stelter says he hears from readers that reporters should boycott Spicer’s press briefings in protest of his misrepresentations. Others, such as media scholar Jay Rosen, are stating that the press corps should perhaps think about avoiding interviews with Conway if all she’s going to do is contradict Trump rather than speak for him. 
 
 Boycotts and bans may fill a journalists’ heart with vengeance, or at least keep it from being bruised. But their maker designed reporters to be resilient, to take disparagement, derision, scorn, and sneering from lying government officials in stride. And for good reason. To quote from Jon Ronson once again, “It’s good for journalists to feel demeaned. It means we’re onto a story.” Rather than treat the Spicer, Trump, Conway ingenuities as an excuse to pout and leave the field, the experienced members of the press will be propelled by the weekend to pick up their mobiles and notebooks and go maximum Fahrenthold on the administration. 
 
 As I’ve hypothesized before, there is a method to Trump’s tweets. Whenever he finds the noose of news lowering over his thick orange neck, he takes to Twitter to change the subject. The more outrageous and self-serving (or should I say “self-dealing”?) the tweets are, the better his results. 
 
 On Saturday, the obvious news peg for the press was well-attended protests against his inauguration in Washington, Los Angeles, Boston, Chicago and elsewhere in the world. So Trump sent his press secretary out to essentially speak one of his tweets by falsely stating that “the largest audience to witness an inauguration, period” viewed the Trump event. In doing so, Trump-Spicer snipped the peak off of the protest coverage by making muddy what was clear about the audience size. To believe Spicer, you must accept that an invisible majority filled the Mall and that stealth supporters dressed as bleachers occupied those near-vacant grandstands along the parade route, and as you contemplate the truth value of his statement, you begin to forget about the massive scale of the anti-Trump protests. 
 
 Rather than tying itself up in knots over the Trump obfuscations, the press would be wiser to stop thinking of him as the outlier liar and the worst enemy the press has ever known and come to view him as a politician whose behavior is different only in degree, not in kind. Consider the Obama presidency. As former Politicos Jim VandeHei and Mike Allen wrote in 2013 in a piece titled, “Obama, the Puppet Master,” he was “a master at limiting, shaping and manipulating media coverage of himself and his White House.” Obama didn’t camouflage the news with tweets or with shameless posturing in front of the CIA’s wall of martyrs as Trump did on Saturday, a move that caused former CIA Director John Brennan to growl in protest. Obama, VandeHei and Allen explained, took “old tricks for shaping coverage (staged leaks, friendly interviews) and put them on steroids using new ones (social media, content creation, precision targeting).” In doing so, “Media across the ideological spectrum [were] left scrambling for access.” 
 
 I don’t recall anybody calling for a boycott of Barack Obama or his myrmidons for his media scheming and for tipping the “balance of power between the White House and press … unmistakably toward the government,” as the Politico past-masters put it. The press mostly carried on, threading the thicket of treacheries as best it could. Governments always have and will always impede the press from doing their job, and they will use any means necessary. “All governments lie,” as journalist I.F. Stone once wrote, “but disaster lies in wait for countries whose officials smoke the same hashish they give out.” From my vantage, the Obama administration got Choom Gang stoned on their media pirouetting and the Trump administration seems to have come close to matching them in just a couple of days. 
 
 It is unseemly and counterproductive for journalists to sulk every time the Trump administration yanks their chain. Satisfying, yes, but unseemly and counterproductive. Because I believe in a multiverse of journalistic approaches, I would be the last person to ban moping among the press corps. Sometimes there’s nothing better than a long stay in the weeping room to embolden the beaten. But if you’re feeling whipped and you want my advice, ask yourself, “WWFD?” 
 
 “What Would Fahrenthold Do?” 
 
 ****** 
 
 Well, Fahrenthold has become a part-time CNN contributor, something I’m not suggesting pressies do! Send Fahrentholdian advice to Shafer.Politico@gmail.com. My email alerts owns a special sobbing towel, my Twitter feed hiccups when it cries, and my RSS feed grimaces like Charles Bronson whenever it hears a lie. 
 
 Jack Shafer is Politico’s senior media writer. ||||| The presidency is not a reality show, but President Trump on his first full day in office made clear that he’s still obsessed with being what he once proudly called “a ratings machine.” 
 
 He cares enough about it to send his press secretary, Sean Spicer, out to brazenly lie to the media in his first official briefing. 
 
 “This was the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration — period — both in person and around the globe,” Spicer said. And he added a scolding about widespread reports that differ from his evidence-free assessment: “These attempts to lessen the enthusiasm of the inauguration are shameful and wrong.” 
 
 Crowd size experts estimate Trump’s audience at far fewer than the million or more that Trump is claiming, and at far less than the size of the following day’s women’s march, which the new president has said little about. And side-by-side photographs showed the contrast between the comparatively thin gathering for Trump’s inauguration and the record-setting one in 2009 for former president Barack Obama’s first. 
 
 Ari Fleischer, a former George W. Bush press secretary, saw Saturday’s bizarre session for what it was. 
 
 (Monica Akhtar/The Washington Post) 
 
 “This is called a statement you’re told to make by the President. And you know the President is watching,” Fleischer wrote. (MSNBC’s Mika Brzezinski pegged it as “Sean Spicer’s first hostage video.”) 
 
 The mainstream media, including The Washington Post, appropriately made clear note of the falsehoods about crowd size. The New York Times called out “false claims” in a prominent headline, and many broadcast journalists challenged Spicer immediately — although they didn’t get a chance to do so to his face, since he took no questions. 
 
 CNN wisely chose not to air the briefing in full, but to report on it and to show parts, providing context. Fox News showed it in its full glory, infomercial style. 
 
 Some journalists, afterward, sounded stunned at what had transpired. 
 
 “Astonishing,” said Jim Acosta of CNN. “Jaw meet floor” was the reaction of Glenn Thrush of the New York Times. 
 
 The reaction is understandable. Some semblance of truth from the White House ought to be reasonable enough, especially on Day Two. 
 
 But nothing about this should shock. 
 
 1 of 83 Full Screen Autoplay Close Skip Ad × See photos of White House senior staff being sworn-in at the White House View Photos President Donld Trump staff members, including advisor Kellyanne Conway and Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, are sworn-in in the East Room. Caption The beginning of the president’s term has featured controversial executive orders and frequent conflicts with the media. March 17, 2017 President Donald Trump, first lady Melania Trump and their son, Barron, walk to Marine One at the White House en route to Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Fla. Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post Buy Photo Wait 1 second to continue. 
 
 Anyone — citizen or journalist — who is surprised by false claims from the new inhabitant of the Oval Office hasn’t been paying attention. That was reinforced when Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway told “Meet the Press” Sunday that Spicer had been providing “alternative facts” to what the media had reported, making it clear we’ve gone full Orwell. 
 
 Official words do matter, but they shouldn’t be what news organizations pay most attention to, as they try to present the truth about a new administration. 
 
 White House press briefings are “access journalism,” in which official statements — achieved by closeness to the source — are taken at face value and breathlessly reported as news. And that is over. Dead. 
 
 Spicer’s statement should be seen for what it is: Remarks made over the casket at the funeral of access journalism. 
 
 As Jessica Huseman of ProPublica put it: “Journalists aren’t going to get answers from Spicer. We are going to get answers by digging. By getting our hands dirty. So let’s all do that.” 
 
 She’s right. So was Tim O’Brien, executive editor of Bloomberg View and a Trump biographer, who urged journalists to remember that the White House briefing room is “spoon-feeding and Trump is a habitual fabulist.” 
 
 There’s a deeper story here, beyond a single briefing, no matter how memorable. Saturday made clearer than ever that President Trump intends to make the American media his foremost enemy. 
 
 During his first official visit to the CIA, Trump once again attacked the media, as he did throughout the campaign as he blacklisted news organizations and called reporters “scum.” 
 
 Journalists shouldn’t rise to the bait and decide to treat Trump as an enemy. Recalling at all times that their mission is truth-telling and holding public officials accountable, they should dig in, paying far more attention to actions than to sensational tweets or briefing-room lies — while still being willing to call out falsehoods clearly when they happen. 
 
 They also should quickly acknowledge and correct their own inevitable errors, as Time’s Zeke Miller did — multiple times and with an apology — after erroneously reporting that a bust of Martin Luther King Jr. had been removed from the Oval Office. 
 
 That didn’t keep the president from making Miller’s reporting error a major issue as he raged during his CIA visit: “This is how dishonest the media is.” 
 
 Trump wants a flat-out war with the nation’s media for one well-calculated reason: Because he believes it will continue to serve his political purposes, as it has for months. 
 
 Journalists should respond by doing their jobs responsibly, fairly and fearlessly, in service of the public good. 
 
 Somebody has to be the grown-up in the room. We’ve just been reminded of who it won’t be. 
 
 For more by Margaret Sullivan visit wapo.st/sullivan. ||||| It looks like we have the first leaks of the Trump administration, to reporters at the New York Times and New York Magazine, no less. 
 
 First Maggie Haberman of the Times reported early on Sunday that “a few people close to Trump administration suggest” that the new president might have set a “trap” for his new press secretary when he sent Sean Spicer out to read a statement yesterday on the size of the inauguration crowd: 
 
 Putting everything else aside, I've had a few people close to Trump administration suggest this may have been a trap for the press sec. — Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) January 22, 2017 
 
 He was not Trump's first choice for press secretary, and was pushed by Priebus. — Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) January 22, 2017 
 
 And he may have walked himself into it. — Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) January 22, 2017 
 
 @lrozen there were a few, but as @KellyannePolls told me on NYT podcast, she declined that job — Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) January 22, 2017 
 
 And then more recently Sunday night, New York Magazine’s Gabriel Sherman reported a similar sentiment from a “longtime Trump adviser”: 
 
 Trump sent Spicer out to give statement yesterday, a longtime Trump adviser says, but afterwards Trump said "he was terrible." — Gabriel Sherman (@gabrielsherman) January 22, 2017 
 
 Also Trump sources reminding me that Trump didn't want Spicer in the job. He wanted Kellyanne as press secretary. Spicer was a Priebus pick. — Gabriel Sherman (@gabrielsherman) January 22, 2017 
 
 As they say, bigly if true. 
 
 *** ||||| “Inaccurate numbers involving crowd size were also tweeted,” Spicer continued, because the NPS did not count. (My colleague Robinson Meyer explained how crowd counts at events like the inauguration come about.) He incorrectly characterized ridership statistics provided by WMATA, D.C.’s transit authority. 
 
 Then came the big whopper: “This was the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration—period—both in person and around the globe.” 
 
 Spicer’s statement required dismissing all available evidence: ridership count, eyewitness testimony, independent crowd-counts, and Nielsen television ratings. Spicer cut his teeth at the Republican National Committee as the combative voice of a body often at odds with the media, but even by those standards, his furious insistence on assertions at odds with the evidence were peculiar. 
 
 They are, however, emerging as a hallmark of the administration. For days ahead of the inauguration, Trump aides insisted that the president-elect was writing his own inaugural address, without the aid of speechwriters. They went so far as to stage a photograph that purported to show him writing the speech—though the image showed Trump wielding a Sharpie, and some internet sleuths speculated that the desk he was using is typically used as a reception desk at his Mar-a-Lago estate. 
 
 On Friday, however, The Wall Street Journal reported, “Much of the speech was written by Stephen Miller and Steve Bannon, two of Mr. Trump’s top advisers, a White House official said.” Why mislead the public about who wrote the speech? After all, the news that Miller would be assisting in writing the address had emerged days ago, and there’s certainly no shame in a president employing speechwriters, nor has the practice dimmed positive reception for past presidential addresses. 
 
 Ahead of the inauguration, Trump threw a concert in front of the Lincoln Memorial. “This started out tonight being a small little concert, and then we had the idea maybe we’ll do it in front of the Lincoln Memorial,” Trump said in brief remarks. “I don’t know if it’s ever been done before. But if it has, very seldom.” That claim was also ridiculous, whether it was intentionally misleading or simply badly misinformed. There was a huge, widely covered concert at the memorial to kick off Obama’s inauguration festivities eight years ago. 
 
 These are only three examples of Trump and his aides offering statements that are not only provably false, but easily checked. (There are plenty more where they came from, like Trump’s claim that Russian hacking was not brought up before the election.) 
 
 There was a brief skirmish within the journalism world around the new year, when Wall Street Journal editor Gerry Baker professed wariness about how some of Trump’s statements had been labeled. “I’d be careful about using the word ‘lie.’ ‘Lie’ implies much more than just saying something that’s false. It implies a deliberate intent to mislead,” he said. Baker took some heat for that statement in some more progressive parts of the press, but his distinction is real and important. ||||| Dan Rather warned Americans about the Trump administration in a Facebook post on Sunday, saying these are not "normal times." 
 
 The former CBS Evening news anchor targeted President Trump, adviser Kellyanne Conway and press secretary Sean Spicer for comments in the last 24 hours. 
 
 “When you have a spokesperson for the president of the United States wrap up a lie in the Orwellian phrase 'alternative facts'...,” Rather wrote. 
 
 ADVERTISEMENT 
 
 "When you have a press secretary in his first appearance before the White House reporters threaten, bully, lie, and then walk out of the briefing room without the cajones to answer a single questions...," he added. 
 
 "When you have a President stand before the stars of the fallen CIA agents and boast about the size of his crowds (lies) and how great his authoritarian inaugural speech was...” 
 
 “These are not normal times.” 
 
 Rather wrote that the press, the public and the political leaders of both parties have "never seen anything like this before." 
 
 He urged fellow journalists to demand follow-ups and satisfying answers rather than accept elected GOP officials' non-answers. 
 
 “Facts and the truth are not partisan," he said. "They are the bedrock of our democracy. And you are either with them, with us, with our Constitution, our history, and the future of our nation, or you are against it. Everyone must answer that question.” ||||| For wary Washington journalists, it seemed only a matter of time before Donald J. Trump’s presidency would lead to a high-tension standoff between his administration and the news media. 
 
 But on Day 1? 
 
 The news media world found itself in a state of shock on Sunday, a day after Mr. Trump declared himself in “a running war with the media” and the president’s press secretary, Sean Spicer, used his first appearance on the White House podium to deliver a fiery jeremiad against the press. 
 
 Worse, many journalists said, were the falsehoods that sprang from the lips of both Mr. Trump and Mr. Spicer on Saturday. Mr. Trump accused the news media of confecting a battle between himself and the intelligence services (in fact, he had previously compared the services to Nazi Germany in a Twitter post). And among other easily debunked assertions, Mr. Spicer falsely claimed that Mr. Trump’s inauguration was the most attended in history (photographs indicated it was not).