Source: Multi-News

Police in Ohio have filed an aggravated murder charge against a 20-year-old man accused of killing his fiancée’s mother late last month, PEOPLE confirms. 
 
 Jeffrey Scullin Jr., who had been engaged to the daughter of sixth-grade teacher Melinda Pleskovic, was arrested on Tuesday by Strongsville police. He is being held in lieu of $1 million bond. 
 
 Get push notifications with news, articles, and more! 
 
 Strongsville Police Chief Mark Fender announced the arrest during a news conference held hours after Scullin was taken into custody. 
 
 Pleskovic, 49, was found dead inside her home on Oct. 23. She’d been stabbed and shot. 
 
 In a strange development, Sculllin was one of the two people to call 911 to report his future mother-in-law’s death. 
 
 Chief Fender told reporters that Pleskovic’s husband, Bruce Pleskovic, called 911 that Monday after returning to his home with Scullin to find Melinda on the floor in a pool of blood. 
 
 “I think my wife is dead,” he told a dispatcher. 
 
 • Want to keep up with the latest crime coverage? Click here to get breaking crime news, ongoing trial coverage and details of intriguing unsolved cases in the True Crime Newsletter. 
 
 Jeffrey Scullin Jr. Strongsville Police Department 
 
 Melinda Pleskovic Facebook 
 
 During the call, Bruce said that there had been break-ins at their home in recent weeks, most recently the Thursday before Melinda’s killing. 
 
 But police suspect he was acting under information given to him by Scullin — the only person, they say, who had reported seeing people attempting to illegally enter the residence. 
 
 Scullin, who had also been living at the Pleskovics’ home, told the 911 operator in his own call that he saw no signs of a break-in, according to audio of the call obtained by PEOPLE. He said that the doors to the home had been locked. 
 
 “We just came home. She’s on the kitchen floor,” he said. “I took her son and my daughter outside. Her husband is inside with her now.” 
 
 “We found her in the kitchen. She’s not moving,” he continued. 
 
 Asked by the dispatcher if it appeared Melinda had been beaten, Scullin said, “She has blood all around her. I didn’t look. I just grabbed the child and left. There’s a lot of blood.” 
 
 A possible motive and further details about how the crime were committed have not been released. 
 
 Scullin has not yet entered a plea, and it was unclear Thursday if he’s retained legal counsel who could comment on his behalf. 
 
 He and Melinda’s daughter were set to marry last weekend. Instead, they spent the day at her funeral where he reportedly served as a pallbearer. ||||| Melinda was a beloved figure in the community. She was a mother of three children and a sixth grade teacher who taught at Strongsville City Schools for more than 20 years. ||||| The blood of Strongsville school teacher Melinda Pleskovic was found on the blade of a knife located in a pickup truck driven by her daughter's fiance, court records show. 
 
 In addition, police say Jeffrey Scullin's DNA was found on the knife handle and that more blood was found on a passenger side door. Police describe the knife as a 'large, tactical' weapon. 
 
 Scullin, 20, is scheduled to be arraigned Friday in Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court on charges of aggravated murder, murder, felonious assault, making false alarms and tampering with evidence. 
 
 He is being held under a $1 million bond. 
 
 The court document filed by Strongsville police investigators is the first true glimpse of how Scullin came to emerge as a suspect in Pleskovic's shooting and stabbing death Oct. 23 inside her Blazing Star home. 
 
 Scullin, who lived with Pleskovic, 49, and her husband, was set to marry the couple's daughter just days after the killing. Instead, the family held a funeral and Scullin served as a pallbearer. 
 
 Police reports show the Pleskovics had complained for a year about pranks and break-ins at their home One attempted break-in, four days before the slaying, was reported by Scullin. The false alarm charge is connected to that burglary report, documents show. 
 
 It was Scullin and Pleskovic's husband who called 911 after arriving home and discovering Melinda Pleskovic's body on the kitchen floor. 
 
 Surveillance cameras were examined and confirm that the family had spent time at Applebees prior to the slaying. 
 
 Police are also examining Scullin's cell phone as well as the phones of the Pleskovic family for possible evidence.