Source: Multi-News

More than $300,000 has been spent on the investigation into the unsolved shooting death of a Fox Lake police lieutenant, according to a review of personnel records from 50 suburban Chicago police agencies. 
 
 Almost two-thirds of that number, about $196,000, was related to overtime, according to an analysis by the Daily Herald. The review also found that departments with employees assigned to the Lake County Major Crime Task Force had some of the highest costs. 
 
 The killing of Fox Lake Lt. Charles Joseph Gliniewicz on Sept. 1 prompted a manhunt for three suspects. Authorities later confirmed Gliniewicz had been shot twice with his own weapon. Investigators have revealed little else. 
 
 Despite a wide search and a month of detective work, police haven't made any arrests, identified any suspects or come up with a possible motive. Questions have swirled around the investigation — particularly since the county coroner said he has been unable to rule the 52-year-old Gliniewicz's death a homicide, suicide or an accident. 
 
 The review found that 283 people from 50 suburban Chicago police departments and sheriff's offices were involved in the first three weeks after the shooting, either assisting in the investigation or covering shifts for others. That amounts to more than 5,700 hours of work. 
 
 "It's something worth spending the taxpayers' money on," Mundelein Village Manager John Lobaito said. That suburb spent about $23,000. 
 
 The Lake County sheriff's office sent 93 employees to help with the investigation at a cost of nearly $46,000 in overtime. 
 
 Lake County Major Crime Task Force spokesman Chris Covelli said that once a major crimes task force investigation starts, it's understood that individual departments will pick up the cost of the employees they send to work on it. 
 
 Associated Press ||||| this data is currently not publicly accessible. 
 
 Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. 
 
 About this capture 
 
 Sorry, the page you requested does not exist 
 
 
 
 or has been moved. Please check to make sure 
 
 
 
 that the URL you entered is correct. 
 
 ||||| (CNN) Initially hailed as a hero after his death, Fox Lake, Illinois, police Lt. Joe Gliniewicz is now likely to be remembered by another label: a betrayer. 
 
 What once appeared to be the killing of an officer in the line of duty turned out to be "a carefully staged suicide," George Filenko, Lake County Major Crimes Task Force commander, said Wednesday. 
 
 "This staged suicide was the end result of extensive criminal acts that Gliniewicz had been committing," Filenko said, announcing the conclusions of the investigation into the officer's September 1 death. 
 
 The officer had been stealing and laundering money from a police department program that mentored young people hoping to become law enforcement officers, Filenko said. Gliniewicz, a leader in that program, had been stealing money for at least seven years, he said. 
 
 The investigation found that the officer, who had experience creating mock crime scenes, staged his suicide to make it look like a homicide. 
 
 The officer placed his equipment at the scene in an "attempt to mislead first responders and investigators to believe this was a homicide," Filenko said. 
 
 'Ultimate betrayal' 
 
 Far from being a hero, Gliniewicz "committed the ultimate betrayal" with his actions over the past several years, Filenko said. "He behaved for years in a manner completely contrary to the image he portrayed." 
 
 Another reversal occurred Wednesday. A group that gave Gliniewicz's family $15,000 asked for the money back. 
 
 The 100 Club, which assists families of first responders who lose their lives in the line of duty, said it "must stay true" to the group's mission. 
 
 Gliniewicz's family didn't reply to that request but issued a statement asking for privacy as it coped "with the loss of a beloved husband and father." 
 
 Gliniewicz was well known in Fox Lake. Before becoming a police officer, Gliniewicz served active duty in the Army and Reserve from 1980 to 2007, earning the nickname GI Joe from those who knew him. He left the military with a rank of first sergeant. 
 
 The initial assumptions shifted when investigators "didn't see anything to indicate there was a struggle physically" in the officer's death, Filenko said. 
 
 Investigators then found that the village of Fox Lake, north of Chicago, had started "a thorough internal audit of all of their assets" that Gliniewicz was concerned might unearth proof of his illicit financial activities, Filenko said. 
 
 Investigators recovered 6,500 text messages Gliniewicz had deleted, Filenko said, and looked at thousands of pages of bank statements that showed financial improprieties. 
 
 "We just went where the facts took us," he said. 
 
 The investigation indicates at least two others were involved in criminal activity, though that inquiry is ongoing, and police are not commenting further for now, he said. 
 
 Authorities released text messages Gliniewicz exchanged with unidentified people in which he discussed the Explorer Post, the youth organization sponsored by the police department. Gliniewicz wanted sponsorship moved to another organization so the city administrator would not scrutinize the post finances. 
 
 "Chief won't sign off to move it to american legion and if she gets ahold of the old checking account, im pretty well f***ed," a May 13 text said. 
 
 On June 25 he advised that same person "to start dumping money into that account or you will be visiting me in JAIL!! The 1600 and the 777 all came from there..." 
 
 At Wednesday's press briefing, Filenko was asked whether police allowed the narrative of Gliniewicz to spread, even as investigators started having doubts. 
 
 "We completely believed from day one that (the death of Gliniewicz) was a homicide," he said. "Our intention was never to mislead the public." 
 
 The last call 
 
 Gliniewicz was under increasing levels of stress from scrutiny into what the investigators found to be criminal activity, Filenko said. 
 
 The veteran officer had planned to retire in August, but he was asked to stay on for another month. 
 
 The last radio call of his more than 30 years on the job was anything but routine. It would signal the beginning of a mystery that stumped investigators for a time. 
 
 On the morning of September 1, the lieutenant sent word over his radio at 7:52 that he was pursuing a trio on foot. Three minutes later, he requested backup. Radio communication dropped off. Colleagues would not hear Gliniewicz's voice again. 
 
 The backups arrived about 8 a.m. and a few minutes later found Gliniewicz dead. His body was roughly 50 yards from his cruiser, police said. 
 
 Three people who appeared in a surveillance video near the crime scene were cleared of suspicion. 
 
 The shooting 
 
 Gliniewicz was wearing a bulletproof vest at the time he was shot, according to two law enforcement officials briefed on the investigation. One of the officials said two shots hit Gliniewicz -- one stopped by his bulletproof vest, and another entered his torso at a downward angle. 
 
 The officer's .40-caliber pistol was found at the scene. A source involved in the investigation told CNN in September that Gliniewicz's gun was fired, but it wasn't clear who pulled the trigger. 
 
 Lake County officials said the case was being handled as a homicide, but other theories remained on the table during the investigation, including the possibility of a self-inflicted fatal gunshot wound. 
 
 The coroner said he couldn't rule out a homicide, suicide or accident. 
 
 A massive manhunt was launched in the aftermath. 
 
 More than 400 law enforcement officers raked through the heavy woods near Fox Lake on foot, all-terrain vehicles and horseback. 
 
 The FBI, U.S. marshals and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives also helped in the hunt as well as police from adjoining areas. But eventually they pulled out, saying no suspects or persons of interest had been identified. ||||| FOX LAKE, Illinois — Investigators never found the men suspected of killing Lt. “GI Joe” Gliniewicz. Not for lack of effort, not for lack of evidence, and not for enough tips. 
 
 The men didn’t exist. 
 
 The three vaguely described suspects, “two male white, one male black,” were apparently a product of Gliniewicz’s imagination, ginned up to make himself go out like a hero. 
 
 Fox Lake police on Wednesday said Gliniewicz’s death was a “carefully staged suicide.” Gliniewicz had been stealing and laundering thousands of dollars from the police department’s youth auxiliary program for personal purchases, the department said. The purchases included gym memberships, porn websites, and mortgage payments. 
 
 Perhaps Gliniewicz believed his alleged theft was in danger of being uncovered. If he was caught, his life as he knew it—gung ho cop, patriotic Army veteran, spectacular father, loving husband—would be over. 
 
 “Gliniewicz committed the ultimate betrayal to the citizens he served and the entire law-enforcement community,” said George Filenko, commander of the Lake County Major Crimes Task Force. “Personally, this is the first time as a police officer that I’m ashamed by the actions of a member of law enforcement.” 
 
 As a leader in the police “explorer” program, Gliniewicz had extensive experience mocking up crime scenes to train aspiring cops, and officials say he used those skills to throw police off the trail of his deception. 
 
 His hoax sent local, state, and federal law enforcement down an expensive path, conducting what for months has been officially considered a homicide investigation. Initial estimates pegged the cost for the manhunt in the hours and days following Gliniewicz’s death at about $300,000. (On Wednesday, Filenko couldn’t say what the total cost for the investigation was.) 
 
 While the loss of a father and husband has devastated the Gliniewicz family—as well as his fellow officers at the Fox Lake Police Department—the new information provided by authorities may be even more painful to consider. The man known in this small northern Illinois town as “GI Joe” apparently wasn’t what he seemed, and he spent his last day trying to protect that legacy—of a committed cop and patriot, of a loving family man, of an American hero. 
 
 The theft might not have been in danger of being exposed when Gliniewicz was called in by the village administrator in August to assist in what has been called a “clean slate review” of the department after the former police chief resigned in the wake of allegations that a drunk had been roughed up in the jail. 
 
 Filenko said Wednesday that the still-unnamed officer disciplined in that case was not Gliniewicz, but it is unclear exactly when and how police began looking at the lieutenant for his alleged theft. 
 
 Regardless, Gliniewicz apparently thought he was in danger. Among the evidence presented Wednesday were text messages sent between Gliniewicz and two other unnamed individuals who remain under investigation. 
 
 In one, Glinieiwicz and a person identified only as “Individual 2” talked about village administrator Anne Marrin’s probe into the police department. “She hates me and I’ve never said more than 3 sentences to her the shes (sic) been here,” Gliniewicz wrote. 
 
 The recipient responded: “Hopefully she decides to get a couple of drinks in her and she gets a DUI.” 
 
 The texts also include one from Gliniewicz to ex-chief Michael Behan. 
 
 “[Marrin] has now demanded a complete inventory of [police explorer] central and a financial report…FML.” 
 
 Police did not provide The Daily Beast with Behan’s response. But considering Gliniewicz was in communication with the former chief regarding what police consider a crime, it’s probably safe to say he was in on the fraud. 
 
 Marrin didn’t take questions Wednesday, but with her voice shaking slightly it was clear she was distraught at what authorities have learned about a man they were honoring as a hero just a few months ago. 
 
 Get The Beast In Your Inbox! Daily Digest Start and finish your day with the top stories from The Daily Beast. Cheat Sheet A speedy, smart summary of all the news you need to know (and nothing you don't). By clicking “Subscribe,” you agree to have read the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy Subscribe Thank You! You are now subscribed to the Daily Digest and Cheat Sheet. We will not share your email with anyone for any reason. 
 
 GI Joe was honored on the floor of the U.S. Senate by Dick Durbin of Illinois. The officer’s image was splayed on a video screen at Soldier Field during a Chicago Bears game. Little girls operated lemonade stands to raise money for the Gliniewicz family. At least one man paid for a tattoo to have the fallen cop memorialized. 
 
 At the same time, his death provided more fuel for those who said it was the latest piece of evidence in rising anti-police sentiment, partly as a result of the Black Lives Matter movement. 
 
 Conservative wheels started spinning the moment Gliniewicz hit the ground—This is what you get when you question the police, the thinking went that warm week in late August. Dead cops. 
 
 Turns out it had nothing to do with Black Lives Matter, or suspicious men, or protecting and serving, or defending law and order. Instead it had everything to do with whatever was going on between Gliniewicz’s ears and in the heart he fired his own gun into. 
 
 Despite the extensive investigation, there remain serious questions that need to be answered in Fox Lake. Police made clear Wednesday that it was known fairly early that no one had touched Gliniewicz’s gun other than GI Joe himself. That, combined with the knowledge that the fatal bullet came from Gliniewicz’s own gun should have been enough to confirm a suicide weeks ago. 
 
 But it apparently wasn’t. 
 
 Coroner Thomas Rudd’s decision to inform the press that Gliniewicz’s gun was the murder weapon on Oct. 1 angered police. Filenko dressed down Rudd, telling any media outlet that would listen how the medical examiner’s release of the only pertinent information to come out since Gliniewicz died had put the entire investigation “in jeopardy.” 
 
 Filenko didn’t say how Rudd’s actions had done so at today’s press conference. As far as what will happen to the DNA samples “randomly” collected from hundreds of Fox Lake residents, or how many there even are, Filenko said, “I don’t know.” 
 
 Throughout it all, Filenko and others have insisted that they kept everything on the table, that nothing was discounted even as the mayor of Fox Lake called Gliniewicz’s death the “heinous murder of a police officer.” 
 
 All for a man who allegedly stole from his own department and the town that supported it, then deceived his fellow officers by concocting a fake emergency, and adding to his own family’s grief by tarnishing what had been a stellar career in law enforcement and a life of commitment to his loved ones until that day. 
 
 In his wake, Gliniewicz left confusion, anger, and sadness—perhaps even more so now that we know more about the full breadth of his actions. One of his sons, D.J., was especially torn. 
 
 “I know my father. My family knows my father and so do his closest friends,” D.J. told CNN’s Anderson Cooper in September. “He is not someone who ever contemplated suicide or had suicidal tendencies.” 
 
 All of those people were wrong. They apparently didn’t know as much as they’d thought about GI Joe. 
 
 He lied in life and he lied in death. ||||| Investigators: Gliniewicz committed 'ultimate betrayal,' they didn't mislead 
 
 hello 
 
 Lake County Major Crimes Task Force Cmdr. George Filenko said Gliniewicz was using the Explorer fund "as his personal bank account." He added that $250,000 flowed through the account over seven years, and investigators estimated Gliniewicz took about "five figures" worth of funds. Gilbert R. Boucher II | Staff Photographer 
 
 Lake County Major Crimes Task Force Cmdr. George Filenko said Gliniewicz a staged trail of police equipment at the crime scene in an attempt to mislead police to believe his death was a homicide. Gilbert R. Boucher II | Staff Photographer 
 
 Once hailed a hero cop, Fox Lake police Lt. Charles Joseph Gliniewicz was exposed by authorities Wednesday as an embezzler who tried to make his death look like murder to deceive investigators. 
 
 In a well-attended news conference, Lake County Major Crimes Task Force leader George Filenko said Gliniewicz shot himself in the chest two months ago because he feared his theft of money from the Fox Lake Law Enforcement Explorer youth program, which he ran, was going to be uncovered by a village audit. 
 
 "Gliniewicz committed the ultimate betrayal to the citizens he served and the entire law enforcement community," Filenko told reporters at the Round Lake Beach Cultural and Civic Center. "The facts of his actions proved he behaved for years in a manner completely contrary to the image he portrayed." 
 
 Lake County police pursued the case as a homicide at the start, but mounting evidence began painting a shady picture of how the 52-year-old police officer and military veteran lived and died. 
 
 The case broke open about 10 days ago after authorities finished reviewing bank records, text messages and emails that indicated Gliniewicz had been stealing money from the group for seven years and had forged signatures on official documents as part of his crimes. 
 
 Filenko estimated the amount of money stolen stretched into "five figures." The investigation remains open, he said. 
 
 According to Filenko, Gliniewicz deceived village officials, his fellow police officers and ultimately the investigators trying to solve the mystery of his Sept. 1 death in a swampy area near downtown Fox Lake. 
 
 "This is the first time in my career in law enforcement that I've felt ashamed by the acts of another police officer," Filenko said. 
 
 Attorney Henry "Skip" Tonigan released a statement on behalf of the Gliniewicz family saying: "Today has been another day of deep sorrow for the Gliniewicz family. The family has cooperated with the task force's investigation and will not comment at this time. The Gliniewicz family requests that their privacy be respected as they continue to cope with the loss of the beloved husband and father." 
 
 But ABC 7 Chicago reported late Wednesday that Gliniewicz's wife, Melodie, and son D.J. are under investigation in connection with the embezzlement of funds from the Fox Lake Police Explorer Program, citing anonymous sources. 
 
 Investigation details 
 
 Filenko was joined at the news conference by Lake County Coroner Thomas Rudd and Lake County sheriff's spokesman Christopher Covelli. They detailed the investigation, which included the review of more than 6,500 pages of text messages, thousands of pages of financial documents, 40,000 emails, more than 430 leads and a comprehensive victimology report prepared by federal investigators. 
 
 Filenko said it was the most comprehensive evidentiary investigation in Lake County history. 
 
 Rudd said Gliniewicz was killed by the second of two bullets the veteran officer fired from his .40-caliber semi-automatic pistol about 8 a.m. Sept. 1. 
 
 During the news conference, Rudd said the fatal wound was to the officer's chest and didn't go through his protective vest, indicating the weapon was placed between his body and vest when it was fired. 
 
 Rudd mimicked a gun with his hand and pointed it down from his chin to his chest to demonstrate the fatal shot. 
 
 Officials said Gliniewicz first radioed dispatchers at 7:52 a.m., claiming he'd be at the village-owned old concrete plant on Honing Road to check on two white men and a black man who were acting suspiciously. 
 
 He radioed again at 7:55 a.m., saying the suspicious suspects took off into the swamp and that he'd need backup. The next radio dispatch was from the officer who found Gliniewicz shot at 8:09 a.m. He was pronounced dead at 8:25 a.m. 
 
 The immediate discovery of Gliniewicz's body and radio transmissions he made before his death led officers to believe Gliniewicz was gunned down by the offenders he was chasing, Filenko said. In addition, Filenko said there were signs of a struggle near where officers found him. 
 
 On Wednesday, Filenko said the three men might not have been invented by Gliniewicz as part of his charade. He may have seen them as he drove to the spot where he killed himself, Filenko said. 
 
 Three men who matched that description were questioned by police but not charged. On Wednesday, Filenko said the men "have rock-solid alibis." 
 
 Evidence was staged 
 
 Gliniewicz's death touched off a massive manhunt that involved scores of heavily armed police officers who used helicopters and dogs to search for the three suspected gunmen. 
 
 Village hall, schools, and the Fox Lake Public Library were locked down and closed during the search, and several roads were blocked off by police during the hunt. 
 
 But on Wednesday, Filenko revealed Gliniewicz created a trail of equipment consisting of his pepper spray canister, an extended baton and his glasses to mislead officers and rescue units, Filenko said. The items were scattered over an area about 300 feet long, leading to where his body was found. 
 
 Filenko added that members of the FBI determined Gliniewicz had not fought for his life at the scene and was not dragged after the initial shot was fired. In addition, Gliniewicz's gun was found at the scene in tall grass less than 3 feet from his body. 
 
 Gliniewicz had significant experience in staging mock crime scenes for police explorer training, which ultimately assisted him in staging the crime scene, Filenko said. That knowledge helped throw investigators off the right trail, he said. 
 
 Didn't mislead public 
 
 At the news conference, Filenko repeatedly denied deliberately misleading the public about the nature of Gliniewicz's death. 
 
 Investigators considered the case a homicide until all the financial and text evidence came to light, he said. 
 
 "We did not know," he said. "(We) never intended to mislead the public." 
 
 When asked if he felt he owed the public an apology, Filenko said no. 
 
 "We go where the facts lead us," he said. "We don't jump to conclusions. We work on facts." 
 
 Rudd, who came under fire from police for releasing details about Gliniewicz's death early in the investigation, also said he had no regrets about how the case was handled. 
 
 Fox Lake Mayor Donny Schmit said the last 60 days have taken a toll on the community "like never before." 
 
 "For two months, our residents were left with few answers about what took place the morning of Sept. 1 in our community," Schmit said in a statement. "We are pleased to have finally reached some resolution regarding Lt. Gliniewicz's untimely death." ||||| Fox Lake officials on Tuesday night said they are committed to continuing a program for young adults aspiring to careers in law enforcement that had been led by a veteran officer fatally shot last month. 
 
 Authorities are still investigating the death of Lt. Charles Joseph Gliniewicz, 52, a leader in the Fox Lake Law Enforcement Explorers Post 300 and well known in the community for his work mentoring teens and young adults in the program. 
 
 At a village board meeting Tuesday night, Mayor Donny Schmit said that while there may be some changes to the Explorers program, the board and village very much want to see it continue. 
 
 "After the devastating loss of Lt. Gliniewicz, that was one of our primary concerns, who would take over the Explorers program," said Sgt. Michael Ostertag, who interim Police Chief Michael Keller tapped to take over as the lead advisor for the Explorer post. 
 
 "The post is part of our department, they're part of our family, part of our village," Ostertag said. 
 
 Without Gliniewicz, the post, chartered to the Fox Lake Police Department, had fallen short of the required number of leaders, said Mike Hale, scout executive of the Boy Scouts of America's Northeast Illinois Council. 
 
 Sgt. Dawn Deservi, a former Fox Lake Explorer, has also volunteered to serve as an advisor, Keller said. 
 
 The Boy Scouts spoke with Fox Lake police late last week to talk about the program's future and what they would need to do to continue, Hale said. 
 
 Keller said the post remains active but equipment has been secured as part of the village's ongoing review of police assets and equipment. 
 
 That review began after former Chief Michael Behan's Aug. 28 retirement and is "standard and considered a best practice" as part of a change in leadership, village officials said in a September statement. 
 
 Behan announced his retirement shortly after he was placed on paid administrative leave as part of an internal investigation into how police handled a December 2014 arrest. 
 
 "It's important for us to take the time we need to get that done," Keller said. 
 
 Village and police officials have also been looking at new policies and procedures, with more details available in a couple weeks, Keller said. 
 
 "We're now starting to make (the Explorers) more of a focus as we move forward," he said. 
 
 Keller and Deservi said they'll be working with the Boy Scouts to align their post's activities with the Boy Scouts' Explorers curriculum and requirements for competitions. 
 
 Keller said he couldn't list specific differences between Fox Lake's existing programming and the Boy Scouts' curriculum as he's new to the department, but said the goal is to make sure the local program is in line with the recommendations. 
 
 Ostertag said he'd met with the Explorers last week and they'd be meeting weekly at the police station going forward. 
 
 "I'm looking forward to continuing the great post that Lt. Gliniewicz did establish and maintain all these years," he said. 
 
 No Explorers or family members spoke at the board meeting but Gina Arbay, whose son is a member of the program, said she wanted to attend to hear what village officials had planned. 
 
 While she had not been concerned about the Explorers' future in Fox Lake, she said she was pleased to hear it had full village and police support. 
 
 "I'm excited," she said. 
 
 In other business at Tuesday's board meeting, village trustees approved payments including $25,020 to a detective agency hired as part of the village's internal investigation that led to the former chief and another officer being placed on leave. 
 
 Village spokesman Dave Bayless said Gliniewicz was not involved in that investigation, though he had been participating in the police review of equipment and procedures. 
 
 lzumbach@tribpub.com 
 
 Twitter @LaurenZumbach