Source: Multi-News

Thursday night’s Republican debate in Miami saw a dramatic shift in tone from recent GOP clashes, which had been marked by rancorous exchanges and name-calling. 
 
 The change surprised even front-runner Donald Trump Donald TrumpOvernight Defense: Speculation grows over Trump national security picks Trump wants son-in-law to sit in on daily briefings: report Herman Cain: 'Steve Bannon is not a white supremacist’ MORE, who said at one point, “I cannot believe how civil it’s been up here.” 
 
 But who gained and who lost as crucial primaries loom in Florida, Ohio and several other states on Tuesday? 
 
 WINNERS 
 
 Businessman Donald Trump 
 
 One of the ironclad rules of political campaigns is that a front-runner gains from a debate that produces no game-changing moments. 
 
 ADVERTISEMENT 
 
 By that standard, Trump had by far the best night on Thursday. His rivals highlighted their differences with him, but there was little personal enmity. Trump maintained a calmer demeanor throughout and was never knocked off his stride. 
 
 Trump leads in Florida, Tuesday’s biggest prize, by more than 15 points according to the RealClearPolitics (RCP) polling average, so the relative lack of debate drama will be just fine with him. 
 
 The businessman’s performance was also characterized by repeated calls for the GOP to unify around him and to “embrace” his capacity to bring new voters to the party. Trump has for some time been focusing attention on what he sees as his electability in the fall, and this was the most pronounced example yet. 
 
 In an interview with CNN’s Chris Cuomo moments after the debate ended, Trump declared that the evening had been “elegant” and said, “We needed this kind of a debate.” 
 
 Those aren’t the words of a man who was unhappy with anything that happened during the previous two hours. 
 
 The Republican Party 
 
 There had been widespread consternation within the GOP about the nature of the most recent two debates, one of which featured Trump responding to a Rubio campaign-trail innuendo about his genitalia. 
 
 The party establishment may not yet be reconciled to the prospect of Nominee Trump, but there will at least be a collective sigh of relief about the more measured exchanges on Thursday night in Miami. 
 
 Policy wonks will also have derived some satisfaction from the evening, which featured substantive discussions about a wide range of issues, foreign and domestic, from Social Security and veterans’ affairs to trade agreements and relations with Cuba. 
 
 Sen. Marco Rubio Marco RubioRubio: 'I have no reaction’ to Bannon hire NFL players visit DC for dialogue on race Insurers brace for ObamaCare upheaval MORE (Fla.) 
 
 Rubio entered this debate on the ropes. He suffered a dismal series of election results in Tuesday’s contests, and there is no real evidence that he is clawing his way back into contention in his home state. 
 
 Perhaps wisely, he didn’t try to knock out Trump, or anyone else, with a single blow on Thursday night. Instead, he delivered a solid performance that will have reminded his supporters why they believe in him. 
 
 He also likely helped himself in the Sunshine State on a couple of issues. 
 
 His critique of President Obama’s decision to reopen diplomatic relations with Cuba was powerful, and he walked a fine line effectively on Social Security reform in a state that has more than 3.1 million retirees receiving benefits, as co-moderator Jake Tapper noted. While Rubio proposed gradually raising the retirement age, he also noted that, “I’m against any changes to Social Security that are bad for my mother.” 
 
 Make no mistake, Rubio’s chances of the nomination are exceedingly slim at this point — and they could expire completely if he loses the Florida primary. But he acquitted himself well on Thursday night nonetheless. 
 
 MIXED 
 
 Sen. Ted Cruz Ted CruzCruz, Marla Maples, Tommy Hilfiger all seen at Trump Tower Supreme Court now in Trump’s hands The conservative case against filibuster reform MORE (Texas) 
 
 Cruz can take satisfaction from the fact that he is clearly the biggest threat to Trump’s quest for the nomination. His debate performance Thursday was proficient, as it almost always is, but he delivered no moments spectacular enough to derail the Trump train. 
 
 The Texas senator continues to assail Trump over his conservative bona fides. 
 
 On Thursday, he said that it was a “matter of public record” that the business mogul had supported Democratic nominee John Kerry John KerryUS agrees to take refugees detained by Australia White House hails new Colombia peace agreement Kerry sidesteps Trump talk in Antarctica MORE over incumbent Republican President George W. Bush in the 2004 election and had given money to Hillary Clinton Hillary Rodham ClintonGOP rushes to embrace Trump Mark Mellman: What happened to the polls? DNC charter requires chairman be full time MORE for her 2008 presidential campaign. He also knocked Trump for, in Cruz’s view, his insufficient support for Israel. 
 
 Still, this was a more subdued Cruz than on previous occasions. He may have calculated that going into full-on attack mode would hurt rather than help him or that he should bide his time until other candidates drop out and leave him in a one-on-one battle with Trump. 
 
 But time is running perilously short for anyone hoping to beat Trump. Cruz at one point highlighted that he was only about 100 delegates behind the front-runner and that he had beaten him in a number of states. 
 
 Trump shot back immediately: “He’s always saying, ‘I’m the only one that beat Donald in six contests, and I beat him.’ But I beat him in 13 contests. He never mentions that.” 
 
 All Cruz could do was smile. 
 
 Ohio Gov. John Kasich 
 
 Kasich, a more uneven debater than Cruz, had a respectable night. But a highlight reel for the Ohio governor would be very short indeed. He was competent but not memorable. 
 
 Kasich also suffered from an unusual dynamic. In the most recent debates, he had been able to distinguish himself by his positivity amid rampant mud-slinging. With his rivals adopting a more dignified tone on Thursday, Kasich stood out less starkly. 
 
 LOSERS 
 
 Democrats and fans of recent GOP debates 
 
 Democrats had reacted with undisguised glee to previous Republican debates, which they believed damaged the party’s brand and curbed its capacity to reach out to voters in the center ground. There was much less for them to latch onto on Thursday. 
 
 They were not left entirely without ammunition. Trump’s description of the 1989 pro-democracy Tiananmen Square uprising in China as a “riot” will surely find its way into an attack ad if he does become the GOP nominee. 
 
 When Rubio suggested concerns about climate change were overstated, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (Fla.), chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, immediately excoriated him on Twitter. 
 
 Still, those were slim pickings compared to sound bites about the size of parts of Trump’s anatomy or clashes that featured his repeated mocking of his two main rivals as “Little Marco” and “Lying Ted.” 
 
 Of course, there are other viewers — not all of them Democrats — who have loved the WWE style of those recent debates. Thursday night, by those standards, just didn’t pack the same punch. ||||| At the CNN debate in Miami, GOP candidates sparred over immigration, social security, how to talk about Muslims and more. Here are the key moments. (Sarah Parnass/The Washington Post) 
 
 The 12th Republican presidential debate is over. The Fix team annotated it while I tweeted and picked a handful of the best and worst of the night that was. They're below. 
 
 Winners 
 
 * Marco Rubio: The Florida senator was poised, confident and knowledgeable. He avoided any sort of personal attacks on Donald Trump and largely steered clear of clashing with the race's front-runner at all. It worked. (It also helped that Rubio had a hometown crowd ready to cheer his every word.) Watching Rubio on Thursday night, I found myself wondering where he might have been in this race if he hadn't (a) had brain-lock in the debate just before the New Hampshire primary and (b) hadn't spent 72 hours earlier this month getting in the gutter with Trump. Of course, that's besides the point now. Rubio's last hope in the race is to win Florida, denying Trump the state's 99 delegates and praying that, somehow, the race changes drastically and puts him back in the mix. It's a long shot. But Rubio deserves credit for performing extremely well when the chips were down. 
 
 * Donald Trump: Let me be honest here. I have no idea what to make of Trump when it comes to his debate performances. On the good side, Trump was far more measured and under control in this debate than in any of the previous ones. Gone were references to "Little Marco" and "Lyin' Ted" and the general rhetorical nastiness that has been a Trump hallmark since he announced his candidacy. And Trump was, largely, given a pass by the other men on the stage. Rubio, clearly scorched by his collapse in the wake of his juvenile attacks on Trump, wanted no piece of him. John Kasich, with a campaign built on hope and optimism, ignored Trump. Ted Cruz occasionally engaged Trump -- trying to paint him as a policy simpleton -- but the real estate mogul refused to take the bait. So, that was the good side. Scroll down for the bad side. 
 
 * Ted Cruz: The Texas senator succeeded, at times during the debate, in making it seem as though it was a one-on-one race between him and Trump. Cruz was also less deeply rehearsed in this debate -- to the good. He has a different challenge than Rubio or Kasich, who need to bend the arc of the contest. They need a knockout of Trump; Cruz is trying to beat him on points. And, on that front, this was a good debate for Cruz. He repeatedly hammered Trump's policy solutions as nothing more than empty rhetoric. Also, Rubio's good debate works in Cruz's favor. Cruz can't win Florida but needs to keep those 99 delegates away from Trump somehow. 
 
 * Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović: She's the Croatian president. (But, of course, you knew that.) And thanks to Kasich joking that he'd be running for president of Croatia if there wasn't immigration to the United States, I googled Ms. Grabar-Kitarović. I am certain I wasn't the only one. 
 
 
 
 Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic celebrates her victory against Ivo Josipovic in the presidential elections in Zagreb, Croatia. EPA/ANTONIO BAT 
 
 * Jake Tapper's pocket square: Hell yeah, Jake. I applaud men being a bit fashion forward. Dark suits, white shirts and red/blue ties? Boring. Pocket square? Now we're talking! 
 
 Losers 
 
 * Donald Trump: Imagine where Trump might be if he was willing to pick up a policy briefing book and, you know, skim it. He's often able to coast by in these debates even with an almost total lack of policy knowledge. But, he got caught flat-footed a few times in this one. The most painful? Trump's clear cluelessness about Cuba policy, made all the worse by Rubio's deep knowledge, which he dropped on Trump's head. The question, as always with Trump, is whether he lacks engagement on policy matters at all. It's nothing new, and he continues to win states and rack up delegates. Trump's supporters seem uninterested in the minutiae of his policy positions. Rather they respond to his toughness and his tone. So.... 
 
 * John Kasich: Kasich wasn't bad. He just didn't really stand out in any meaningful way. The Ohio governor kept up his Mr. Nice Guy routine, but it played slightly less well in this debate because everyone was much nicer to each other. Kasich's debate performance speaks to the larger conceit his campaign is built on; hang around, don't make mistakes and offer yourself as an optimistic alternative. The only way a strategy like that works, of course, is if all of the people in front of you implode or kill each other off. 
 
 * Reince Priebus: This was the 12th Republican debate. It is March. Given the lateness of the hour -- in terms of the primary -- it is never a good sign when the chairman of the Republican National Committee has to go out before a debate and assure voters everything is going to be just fine, no need to worry, the situation is under control, please move along, nothing to see here. 
 
 "This party is going to support the nominee, whoever that is, 100%." -- RNC Chair Reince Priebus — Chris Cillizza (@TheFix) March 11, 2016 
 
 * CNN: Look. I'm a man. I'm 40. I have two small children. I work a lot. Just tell me EXACTLY when the damn debate starts. Don't promote -- with your countdown clock no less! -- that the debate begins at 8:30 p.m. Eastern time only to tell viewers (okay, me) when they tune in that "right at the top of the 9 p.m. hour" things will get started. I, of course, get that CNN is making a ratings calculation here. They are betting that even if you are annoyed at their ruse -- you know, their cunning attempt to trick you -- you'll be too lazy to change the channel because you know it's only 30 more minutes until the debate starts. And, it works (on me). Still, CNN. Can't we all just act like grown-ups? Come on, man. What are we doing out here, man? ||||| CLEVELAND, Ohio — Viewers of Thursday's Republican presidential debate might have wondered whether they had flipped on the wrong channel. 
 
 The same characters — celebrity businessman Donald Trump, Sens. Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio and Ohio Gov. John Kasich — were on stage. But the script had changed. The candidates took turns speaking, answering policy-oriented questions and refraining from insulting each other. 
 
 You know, a normal — almost boring — political debate. 
 
 It was a stark divergence from the previous Republican debate last week, in which Trump alluded to his male anatomy in the bawdy program's opening minutes. But on Thursday, Trump, pivoting to the general election, struck a subdued and conciliatory tone. He waited until the second hour of the debate to utter a mild swear word — "hell" — and generally avoided engaging his opponents directly. 
 
 "We're all in this together," Trump said near the beginning of the debate. "We're going to come up with answers. We're going to find the answers to things. And so far, I cannot believe how civil it's been up here." 
 
 Kasich turned in a workmanlike performance in the final debate, televised on CNN, before Ohio's March 15 primary. Ohio and its 66 delegates are of critical importance to blocking Trump, and while polls show a victory in his home state is within reach, Kasich has said he will drop out if he does not win Ohio. 
 
 But ironically, even though he is one of the most substantive and positive candidates in the Republican field, Kasich did not benefit from Thursday's elevated tone. 
 
 Here are five takeaways: 
 
 1. Kasich got lost in the field 
 
 Kasich had his best debate performance last week, serving as the adult in the room during a childish debate that for all intents and purposes devolved into a middle-school food fight. 
 
 That contrast was not so stark on Thursday, and Kasich consequently did not have a big breakthrough moment. 
 
 Kasich showed the most energy when reciting his accomplishments in Ohio, and when offering detailed criticism of Democratic President Barack Obama's foreign policy. He also gave a thoughtful and specific answer on what could be done to improve healthcare and job opportunities for veterans by saying the Pentagon should better coordinate with state-level veteran and employment agencies when military members come home from their deployments. 
 
 Kasich gave a strong answer in response to Trump's assessment that the Chinese government showed "strength" in Tiananmen Square by violently suppressing a popular uprising in 1989. 
 
 "I think the Chinese government butchered those kids," Kasich said. "And when that young man stood in front of that tank — we ought to build a statue of him when he faced down the Chinese government." 
 
 But for the most part, his positive, policy-driven message once again blurred with Rubio, who appeared reformed on Thursday after joining Trump for awhile as a bully in the schoolyard. 
 
 Kasich said it all in his closing message, in which he specifically gave a shout-out to Ohio voters: 
 
 "I have been unwavering in running a positive campaign," Kasich said. "I tried to be positive in such a way to show my record, my accomplishments, my vision. I wanted to raise the bar in presidential politics so our kids can take a look at the way you can run for president, and maybe how you can one day be president of the United States. Maybe being positive isn't all that interesting, but it's interesting to my family and all my supporters I meet across the country." 
 
 For what it's worth, Trump did not go after Kasich, as some had predicted he might. Trump while on the campaign trail had recently called Kasich an "absentee governor" while seeking the presidency. But Trump on Thursday night left Kasich alone. 
 
 2. Cruz tosses barbs at Trump 
 
 Last week, Cruz largely sat back while Rubio and Trump traded insults, and seemed to benefit from his more strategic approach. On Thursday, he waited for about half an hour before engaging Trump, comparing Trump's belief that government can save money by operating more efficiently to that of Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton, the former secretary of state. 
 
 "Government is the problem," Cruz said. 
 
 Generally, Cruz turned in what's likely to be Thursday's most effective performance. His responses suggested that Trump had accurately identified problems — imbalanced trade deals, radical Islamic terrorism — that are important to the GOP conservative base. But he said Trump had either failed to identify solutions, or had offered up the wrong ones. 
 
 "The answer is not to yell, 'China bad, Muslims bad.' You have to understand the nature of these threats and how you deal with them,' Cruz said. 
 
 Cruz also got in one of the best zingers of the night in his closing remarks. 
 
 "What an incredible nation we have," Cruz said, "that the son of a bartender, the son of a mailman, the son of a dishwasher and the son of a successful businessman can all stand on this stage and compete to ask for your support." 
 
 3. Trump softens his tone — but not his message 
 
 Even though Trump avoided getting in scrums with his opponents, that doesn't mean he's sanded the rough edges off some of his more controversial positions. 
 
 Moderator Jake Tapper asked Trump about his comment on Wednesday that "Islam" hates America, pressing on whether he meant to lump all 1.6 billion Muslims in the world in with terrorists. 
 
 "I mean a lot of them, a lot of them," Trump said. "I will tell you, there's something going on that maybe you don't know about, and others don't know about," he said. 
 
 Responding, Rubio said Trump's words could have consequences. Trump said he was not interested in being politically correct. 
 
 Rubio shot back: "I'm not interested in being politically correct. I'm interested in being correct." 
 
 Rubio continued to say that while radical Islam is a problem, Muslims have served in the U.S. military, and that Trump's remarks have made it harder for Americans to work in the Muslim world. 
 
 For his part, Rubio, whose candidacy has floundered in recent days, performed fairly well on Thursday. He got a boost from the hometown crowd — the event was in Miami, Florida — particularly in his answers to questions related to Cuba. 
 
 Florida also will hold its primary on March 15, and a win by Rubio would go a long way toward stopping Trump. Polls consistently have shown Trump winning the state and its 99 delegates by double-digits. 
 
 Trump's more wishy-washy response on opening relations with Cuba — Rubio was clear and specific that the U.S. should do so after certain demands are met — might help Rubio win some votes in Florida, which has a significant Cuban exile population. But Rubio's campaign has the hallmarks of one that is running on fumes. 
 
 4. Candidates talk about a possibly contested convention 
 
 Thursday's moderators asked the candidates how they would feel about a contested Republican National Convention — one in which the July 18 Cleveland convention would arrive without a clear nominee, leaving it to the party to pick one instead. 
 
 Kasich, who took the question first, did not concede moderator Hugh Hewitt's point that he cannot win the nomination without a contested convention. (Kasich would need to win about 90 percent of the remaining delegates to hit the 1,237-delegate threshold needed to clinch the nomination.) 
 
 "Let's not get ahead of ourselves," Kasich said. "We don't know what's going to happen, because we still have more than half the delegates to be selected. And that's what's going to be a very interesting thing to see as it all plays out over the next couple of weeks." 
 
 Cruz said a convention that does not result in himself or Trump — the presumed delegate leaders — being nominated would not be legitimate. 
 
 "There are some in Washington who are having fevered dreams of a brokered convention,'" Cruz said. "They want to parachute in and have their favored candidate be the nominee. I think that would be an absolute disaster, and we need to respect the will of the voters." 
 
 And Trump called the 1,237 delegate-threshold an "artificial number." (The number is half the total number of Republican delegates.) 
 
 "I think whoever gets the most delegates should win," Trump said. 
 
 5. The man behind the curtain steps out 
 
 Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus took the unusual step of addressing the live crowd — and the television audience — before the debate began. He offered a conciliatory message to a party that has been roiling since the emergence of Trump as the clear GOP frontrunner. 
 
 "I want to get something really clear, because there's been a lot of talk about this," Priebus said. "This party is going to support the nominee, no matter who that is, 100 percent. There's no question about that." 
 
 Any of the four men on stage, Priebus reasoned to the Republican crowd, were better than Clinton or Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, the other Democratic presidential candidate. 
 
 Priebus said the winner of the GOP primary will join "our entire wonderful group of people that are going to come together and unify in Cleveland and get behind that nominee. That's what we do as Republicans." 
 
 Easier said than done, perhaps. But maybe Priebus' words had an impact on Thursday. The audience — mostly — sat quietly and waited until candidates were done speaking before applauding. ||||| At the CNN debate in Miami, GOP candidates sparred over immigration, social security, how to talk about Muslims and more. Here are the key moments. (Sarah Parnass/The Washington Post) 
 
 At the CNN debate in Miami, GOP candidates sparred over immigration, social security, how to talk about Muslims and more. Here are the key moments. (Sarah Parnass/The Washington Post) 
 
 Through 12 Republican debates, there has been one consistent dynamic: Donald Trump has held center stage, literally and figuratively. He is the alpha politician who has fended off multiple opponents with cutting insults, timely interruptions and only an occasional exploration of the substance of policy. 
 
 Trump shared a debate stage Thursday night with his three remaining rivals, Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas, Ohio Gov. John Kasich and Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, and he found a different way to control the evening: by deflection and adaptability. 
 
 Ahead in the race for the nomination, he adopted a more restrained and subdued demeanor, even passing up opportunities to strike back when his opponents tried to engage him. It was a strategy common to front-runners — play not to lose, avoid mistakes or eruptions, and force the opposition to change the dynamic. 
 
 For much of the evening, the four candidates carried on a generally civil discussion on the issues. They avoided the kinds of clashes that had created a downward spiral in their dialogue over the three previous debates. 
 
 Thursday’s encounter, in particular, seemed a direct reaction to the universal criticism of their debate a week ago, a forum that took the GOP campaign into the gutter. But in the more subdued environment, Trump was challenged anew to move beyond generalities, and he still struggled to explain where he really stands on a range of issues, from education and trade policy to Social Security and the federal budget deficit to dealing with the Islamic State and Iran. 
 
 1 of 18 Full Screen Autoplay Close Skip Ad × The Republican presidential candidates faced off during the CNN debate in Miami View Photos The four remaining candidates debated in Miami, five days before the winner-take-all GOP primary in Florida on March 15. Caption The four remaining candidates debated in Miami, five days before the winner-take-all GOP primary in Florida on March 15. March 10, 2016 Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, left, shakes hands with rival Ted Cruz as they arrive onstage for the CNN debate at the University of Miami. Carlo Allegri/Reuters Buy Photo Wait 1 second to continue. 
 
 That Trump has certain skills as a candidate is without question. He can dominate a debate or a news cycle with relative ease. His ability to keep opponents at bay and off balance has been stellar. But there is much more to being president than that, which is why there are so many doubts about him among the electorate at large. What the debates have shown is that Trump’s lack of depth on issues continues to be a key part of the story of his quest for the presidency. 
 
 Trump arrived at Thursday’s debate at the University of Miami nearing what could be a key turning point in the Republican campaign. By Tuesday night, after a round of primaries in big states, he either will be seen in full command of the nomination process — virtually unstoppable — or facing competition that could carry on all the way to the floor of the GOP convention in Cleveland in July with no certain outcome. 
 
 The New York billionaire has gotten to this moment through the systematic destruction of his opponents. He is a ruthless attacker and a pitiless counterpuncher. He reads people and goes for the jugular. He delights in putting down his opponents and shows no mercy as he does so. 
 
 Three candidates in particular have threatened him, and he has lashed at each. He unnerved Jeb Bush by declaring the former Florida governor the “low energy” candidate. When he called Rubio “Little Marco,” the tag seemed almost instantly to diminish the politician in whom so many establishment Republicans had invested their hopes. 
 
 Playing Trump’s game has proved foolhardy. Bush vacillated in his response to Trump’s insults until his candidacy had little oxygen left. Rubio finally responded when his candidacy was in deep trouble. Goaded into a direct battle, Rubio went down to Trump’s level of insults. He said this week he now regrets what he did. Rubio’s faint hopes of continuing depend on winning his home state on Tuesday, but he trails in the polls. 
 
 “Lyin’ Ted” is Trump’s belittling shorthand for Cruz. The two seemed to share a bromance for months, until it was clear to each that the other represented a mortal threat to his hopes of becoming the nominee. Cruz, however, has shown more resilience in the face of Trump’s attacks than Bush or Rubio, at least so far. He is second in states and delegates won. 
 
 Kasich has avoided attacking Trump and, in turn, has avoided being attacked. But can anyone beat Trump by trying to ignore him, as Kasich has done? Not likely. If the governor beats Trump in Ohio on Tuesday, he’s likely to find himself under attack, and a new chapter in their relationship will begin to unfold. 
 
 But if Trump’s rivals have failed to knock him down by playing his game of insult and attack, they also have struggled to capitalize on those limitations, which says something about both them and Trump. If the New York businessman ultimately is denied the nomination — or eventually the presidency, should he become the nominee — it could be as much his fault as anything else. After nine months as a politician, there is still a question as to how much he has grown as a candidate. 
 
 On Thursday, he was pressed to explain his opposition to the education policy known as Common Core. “Education through Washington, D.C.,” he replied. When CNN’s Jake Tapper pointed out that Common Core was developed by governors and the states and that the standards are voluntarily adopted by states and localities, Trump said, “It has been taken over by Washington.” 
 
 When Kasich was asked about Common Core, he offered a deeper description of what he has done in Ohio on a range of education issues. Cruz, who opposes Common Core, outlined a series of proposals to expand charter schools, home schools, school vouchers and the like. “It’s easy to talk about the problem, but you have to understand the solutions.” 
 
 CNN’s Dana Bash pressed Trump to explain how he would preserve the financial viability of Social Security without making adjustments in the retirement age, benefits or anything else. Trump said he would attack waste, fraud and abuse. When Bash told him that estimates suggest that would accomplish very little, Trump shifted his focus to the cost of U.S. military obligations overseas. 
 
 This time it was Rubio who suggested the front-runner has limited knowledge of the problems he wants to solve. “The numbers don’t add up,” he said of Trump’s proposal. “The bottom line is, we can’t just continue to tiptoe around this and throw out things like I’m going to get at fraud and abuse.” 
 
 Trump responded by claiming that changes in the government’s bidding process would reap major dividends. “We’re going to go out to bid in virtually every different facet of our government,” he said. “We’re going to save a fortune.” 
 
 So it went through much of the debate — the most substantive discussion of any of the debates on an evening when Trump’s rivals sought to undermine him on the substance rather than theatrics. 
 
 On foreign policy, Trump was told that he didn’t understand that his Middle East policies were anti-Israel, even though he claimed that he was more pro-Israel than anyone else on the stage. He was accused of wanting to continue policies closer to those of President Obama and former secretary of state Hillary Clinton rather than change direction, as many Republicans are demanding. 
 
 Cruz delivered a cutting description of Trump’s foreign policy philosophy as, “China bad, Muslims bad.” 
 
 It was an entirely different approach by Trump’s opponents, and response by the New York billionaire. The criticisms produced few fireworks and probably muted headlines on Web pages all over the country. 
 
 Trump continued on a plane of generalities more than specifics. That has worked for him through the course of the nomination battle, but it leaves unanswered exactly what he would do as president. ||||| Holy cow, what a boring debate. Donald Trump looked like he was on Xanax the whole night, Marco Rubio wasn’t determined to insult him at every turn, and all the candidates already knew what all the other candidates were going to say. The result was the first debate on the Republican side that was actually kind of hard to watch all the way through. 
 
 Not to fear! Here at RedState we slogged through it for you. Without further ado, here are the winners from tonight’s debate: 
 
 Winners: 
 
 1. Ted Cruz – Right now Ted Cruz is just waiting for the inevitable day when Kasich and Rubio drop out so that he can take on Trump head to head. He is banking on the fact that he will win that race just based on what an embarrassment Trump has made out of himself thus far on the campaign trail. I don’t really think anything tonight is going to change that, which is all Ted Cruz really wanted to accomplish. Oh, also, on several occasions, he demonstrated that he knew what he was talking about, and that Donald Trump did not. 
 
 2. Marco Rubio – Rubio got off virtually every memorable line of the night, including “I don’t care about being politically correct, I just want to be correct on this issue.” He also embarrassingly exposed Trump’s lack of basic knowledge about foreign policy, especially with respect to Cuba. Rubio was smart, snappy, and contained Trump without really insulting him. That having been said, Rubio looked kind of tired, and frankly a little defeated. I think Rubio knows the writing is on the wall, but really wanted to stick it out for this last debate. Sad. 
 
 3. The Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act – First time that thing has been mentioned outside of high school history class in decades. 
 
 LOSERS: 
 
 1. Donald Trump – Donald Trump did not just lose this debate, he is a loser. He knows nothing about anything, including the things he professes to know about. His answer about Cuba was worse than the answer Billy Madison gave at the quiz bowl. He wouldn’t even condemn the guy at his rally who punched a protester in the face. Trump tried to appear Presidential but instead mostly just looked stoned. He also defended the Chinese for how they handled Tiananmen Square, so that will really help quell those fears that he’s a not-very-closeted totalitarian. 
 
 2. CNN – This had to be easily the least entertaining debate, and it seemed kind of like all the candidates mailed it in. It is doubtful that any soundbites from this debate will last beyond the next couple of days. Still CNN has gotten a nice share of the GOP primary debate boomlet, so they should go away too sad.