Source: Multi-News

Campaign mailer sent by GOP state Senate candidate Ed Charamut. 
 
 The Jewish campaign treasurer for a Republican candidate in Connecticut is defending a campaign mailer that depicts their Democratic Party opponent in what is being described as the “worst kind of anti-Semitism.” 
 
 “The full-color, double-sided mailer shows an altered image of Democrat Matt Lesser, who is Jewish, with large, beady eyes, holding fistfuls of hundred-dollar bills. There’s also a lead tagline on the other side: “Matt Lesser will take everything you worked for.” It was mailed out to homes in and around Middletown — the district where Lesser is trying to win a Senate seat,” WNPR reported Tuesday. “It was sent by his Republican opponent Ed Charamut.” 
 
 “A new line has been crossed,” said Rep. Lesser. “Two days after a horrific attack in Pittsburgh, the last thing we expected was to see something like this in Connecticut.” 
 
 “To be honest, I was shocked when I saw the mailer, I’ve never seen any quite like it,” he added. 
 
 Allan Greenspan, Charamut’s Jewish campaign treasurer, admitted the image of Lesser’s face was altered. 
 
 “His eyes were altered to look bigger and greedy,” Greenspan admitted. 
 
 Greenspan claimed he was unaware if Lesser’s nose had also been altered. 
 
 “The juxtaposition of a Jewish candidate and money in this manner suggests an age-old anti-Semitic trope,” explained Steve Ginsburg, director of the Connecticut branch of the Anti-Defamation League. 
 
 The state Republican Party lashed out at those criticizing the campaign mailer. 
 
 “If you disagree with a Democrat, this is what they do — they call you racist, sexist or bigot,” claimed GOP Chair JB Romano. 
 
 Democratic Party gubernatorial candidate laid blame with President Donald Trump for the mailer. 
 
 “Hateful rhetoric from the White House has emboldened racists, homophobes and anti-Semites to drop their dog whistles and express their bigotry clearly and openly,” Lamont told the Hartford Courant. “Those hateful words lead to violent acts. There aren’t ‘two sides’ to anti-Semitism, and there aren’t good people on ‘both sides’ of bigotry.” 
 
 This is the worst kind of antisemitism, and for it to show up just two days after the worst attack in history of Jews in America is just breathtaking and heartbreaking. — Gabe Rosenberg (@Gaber205) October 30, 2018 ||||| 
 
 A mailer sent out by Republican state Senate candidate Ed Charamut in Connecticut depicts his Democratic opponent, Matthew Lesser, who is Jewish, as a money-grubbing official. (Ben Lovejoy) 
 
 A campaign mailer sent out by a Republican candidate for a state Senate seat in Connecticut is being widely denounced for using anti-Semitic tropes in an illustration of his Democratic challenger, who is Jewish. 
 
 The advertisement, which was sent out by Republican Ed Charamut’s campaign, depicts his challenger, Democratic state Rep. Matthew Lesser, holding a wad of cash in front of him, with a crazed look in his eyes. 
 
 The mailer drew wide outrage after its existence was reported on Tuesday, as concern about rising anti-Semitism runs high in the wake of the massacre of 11 Jewish congregants at a Pittsburgh synagogue. The embrace of racially charged policies and rhetoric by Republicans, from President Trump to candidates across the country, has emboldened white-supremacist groups, and, critics say, raised questions about the party’s intent. 
 
 Lesser told The Washington Post that he was incredulous when he first heard of the issue from some people in the district, which includes Middletown. 
 
 “I did not believe them, because we live in America,” he said. “I assumed it was some sort of mistake or misunderstanding.” 
 
 He said that his likeness had been photoshopped significantly in the mailer, raising further questions about his opponent’s aim. In addition to the hands grabbing $100 bills that were added to the picture, Lesser’s face has been altered with a smile and a crooked look in his eyes, he said. 
 
 The ad was widely condemned by a broad range of commentators on Tuesday. 
 
 “This is not a problem of individual monsters,” wrote New America fellow Jill Filipovic. “It is a concerted effort to fan the flames of anti-semitism and stir up fear and hatred.” 
 
 Jewish groups also found the ad offensive. 
 
 “We do know, though, the feelings that the flier is evoking — the juxtaposition of a Jewish candidate for office and money in this manner — suggests an age-old anti-Semitic trope,” Steve Ginsburg, of the Anti-Defamation League’s Connecticut office, told the Hartford Courant. “We can’t and don’t know the [motive] of the producer of the flier, but we do know its impact, and they should clarify what they meant.” 
 
 New GOP mailer in a Connecticut state Senate race shows a Jewish candidate clutching a fistful of money. https://t.co/SlG90OA2S4 pic.twitter.com/vBE5ewKXeM — Amanda Terkel (@aterkel) October 30, 2018 
 
 Stuart S. Miller, the academic director of the Center for Judaic Studies and Contemporary Jewish Life at the University of Connecticut, told the newspaper that the ad was “reprehensible, deeply offensive and inexcusable.” 
 
 “I cannot believe that it is an innocent allusion to a supposedly money-spending Democrat,” he said. "It just leaves me shaking my head as to the lengths some people will go to get elected or to stay in office, particularly in the present climate.” 
 
 Lesser said he was shocked by the ad the first time he saw it. 
 
 “It uses imagery that’s been used to vilify the Jewish people for hundreds of years, and grossly caricatured my face and has me clutching a pile of money,” he said. “That’s as explicitly anti-Semitic as anything can be.” 
 
 Charamut, 60, a Republican member of a local town council, defended his use of the image on Tuesday, claiming that it was intended to be a comment on tax policy. 
 
 “Those wishing to portray a graphic illustration as something hateful are completely wrong,” he said in a statement that continued to attack Lesser. “I reject hate speech in all its forms. The mailer draws a stark contrast between myself and Matt Lesser. Do you want to protect your wallets, or do you want to make Matt Lesser your new state Senator?" 
 
 So did the state Republican Party when first contacted about it. 
 
 “When I look at that, I don’t see Jewish,” J.R. Romano, the state party chairman, told the Hartford Courant. "The Democrats have false outrage all the time.” 
 
 But both changed their tone after media attention and outrage about the ad continued to grow on Wednesday. 
 
 Charamut’s campaign issued an apology to Lesser, the Jewish community and anyone else offended by the mailer, saying in a statement that the mailer was not intended to be anything more than a political statement about Lesser. 
 
 “However, it is clear now that the imagery could be interpreted as anti-Semitic, and for that we deeply apologize as hate speech of any kind does not belong in our society and especially not in our politics,” the statement said. “Up until election day we will continue to focus on the issues and it is our sincere hope that people will understand that we in no way ever intended for the mailer to be about Mr. Lesser’s religious background.” 
 
 Romano too acknowledged the mailer’s anti-Semitic undertones and said he would planned to meet with the ADL, in a statement sent to The Post. 
 
 “I had the opportunity to discuss some of the context of the recent mailer," the statement said. “In a race with a Jewish candidate, this image should be recognized as offensive, raising classic anti-Semitic tropes. It cannot be justified.” 
 
 He also said that the party had not approved the ad. 
 
 Republican officials and candidates around the country have raised eyebrows during the run-up to next week’s midterm elections by using rhetoric and advertisements that critics have said play to racial prejudices. 
 
 In New York, Republicans have continually assailed a Democratic congressional hopeful’s decade-old rap career, despite his work as an attorney and a Rhodes Scholar. 
 
 [Did Republicans go too far with an ad featuring a black congressional candidate’s rap lyrics?] 
 
 In Georgia, Republican Brian Kemp used an ad with a tap dancer to show his opponent in the governor’s race, black Democrat Stacey Abrams, “dancing around the truth,” that was also criticized as having a racist undertone. 
 
 In Florida, a Republican official claimed that if black Democrat Andrew Gillum won the governor’s race, “his people” would be getting paid back for slavery. Racist robo-calls have circulated in that race, as well. 
 
 In California, Republican Rep. Duncan Hunter, who was recently indicted on charges that he and his wife used more than $250,000 in campaign funds for personal expenses such as family vacations, has falsely accused his opponent, an American of Palestinian and Mexican descent, of trying to “infiltrate” the government and trying to “hide” family ties to terrorism. 
 
 Republican House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy recently accused three Democratic donors who are Jewish — Michael Bloomberg, Tom Steyer and George Soros — of trying to buy the midterm elections, just a day after Soros, a frequent target of anti-Semites and the far right, received a pipe bomb in the mail. 
 
 [GOP candidate for Fla. governor spoke at racially charged events] 
 
 In Iowa, Rep. Steve King (R) routinely makes the news for stunts such as retweeting a Nazi sympathizer and displaying a Confederate flag on his desk. 
 
 Lesser said the campaign for the state Senate seat had been hard-fought but had yet to turn truly nasty and personal before the mailer, saying he had higher hopes for local election contests despite the bitter national climate. 
 
 “It’s in many ways very sad,” he said. “Particularity at a moment in the nation that is so clearly fraught, I think you’re doing your constituents a disservice. We know the divisiveness that the president is setting at the national level, but it’s on those of us in the trenches working in state and local government to really make our society work.” 
 
 Maura Judkis contributed to this report. 
 
 Read more: 
 
 ‘I’m Dr. Cohen’: The powerful humanity of the Jewish hospital staff that treated Robert Bowers 
 
 House Republican campaign chairman rebukes Rep. Steve King for ‘completely inappropriate’ comments on white nationalism 
 
 Ann Coulter, Rush Limbaugh and others stick with conspiracy theories after mail-bomb suspect’s arrest 
 
 A tiny bookstore had to relocate. Hundreds formed a human chain to move its books. ||||| “I had the opportunity to discuss some of the context of the recent mailer sent by candidate Ed Charamut involving State Representative Matt Lesser,” he said in the statement. “Several things have come into perspective from conversations with Jewish friends, including Jewish Republicans. In a race with a Jewish candidate, this image should be recognized as offensive, raising classic anti-Semitic tropes. It cannot be justified. I personally would not have approved this mailer, and I am grateful that the party did not approve it. I have requested to sit down with the ADL to broaden my understanding of and sensitivity to anti-Semitism.”