Source: Multi-News

A cartoon-like drawing of a robbery suspect widely dubbed the the worst police sketch ever, has, rather incredibly, contributed to an arrest. 
 
 The sketch depicting a man with an almost perfectly spherical head and a vaguely perplexed expression was panned across social media and online news sites upon release last week. 
 
 The Lamar County Sheriff’s Department was even forced to defend the fit, asserting that the drawing, created by an experienced police artist, was a composite sketch and not a likeness. 
 
 The department has however had the last laugh after an officer thought the suspect's description, sketch and crime matched the profile of a local man known to police, eParisExtra.com reports. 
 
 Glenn Edwin Rundles, 32, from Paris, Texas has now been arrested in connection with the knife point robbery of two women in the area. He had been arrested and bailed on unrelated charges days before the officer spotted the similarities. 
 
 Rundles is now being held on charges of aggravated robbery, along with indecent exposure, burglary of a habitation, criminal mischief and evading arrest. His bail has been set at $135,000. 
 
 Here’s the full description given by the victims, which admittedly wasn’t all that much for the artist to go on: “6 foot tall or a little taller, approximately 25 to 30 years old with no or very thin facial hair, and a muscular build. 
 
 “His nose was straight with no flare in the nostrils. He has short black hair and a round face, with tattoos covering both arms and a tattoo on the left side of his neck.” ||||| The suspect is Glenn Edwin Rundles, 32, who was arrested on Jan. 28 for allegedly robbing two women at knifepoint on Jan. 16, in Paris, Texas, the Houston Chronicle reported. 
 
 Rundles is being held on charges of aggravated robbery, indecent exposure, burglary of a habitation, criminal mischief and evading arrest when he attempted to escape from the police serving him a second warrant, eParis Extra.com reported. ||||| Image 1 of / 32 Caption Close 
 
 Image 1 of 32 The sketch of the suspect which went viral. 
 
 
 
 (Lamar County Sheriff's Department) The sketch of the suspect which went viral. 
 
 
 
 (Lamar County Sheriff's Department) 
 
 Image 2 of 32 Glenn Edwin Rundles 
 
 
 
 Check out these other awkward police sketches... 
 
 (Lamar County Sheriff's Department) Glenn Edwin Rundles 
 
 
 
 Check out these other awkward police sketches... 
 
 (Lamar County Sheriff's Department) 
 
 Image 3 of 32 Click through the gallery to see some of the funniest police sketches we've ever seen. Click through the gallery to see some of the funniest police sketches we've ever seen. Photo: Courtesy 
 
 Image 4 of 32 | Dodgers fan with cold face robs man at gunpoint Rosenberg are asking the public to help identify a suspect who robbed a man at gunpoint Saturday, Jan. 17 at an apartment complex in Rosenberg. (Read More) 
 
 The robbery occurred about 6:30 p.m. in the parking lot at the 3101 Place Apartments on Vista Drive, according to the Rosenberg Police Department. Police said the victim was taking his daughter out of their car when a man approached him, pulled out a black, long-barreled revolver and demanded money. When the victim complied, the suspect left. Judging by this mugshot, the man is a huge Los Angeles Dodgers fan who frequently has a cold face. 
 
 For more of the weirdest, most unhelpful or otherwise sketchy police sketches, check out these mugshots ... less Rosenberg are asking the public to help identify a suspect who robbed a man at gunpoint Saturday, Jan. 17 at an apartment complex in Rosenberg. (Read More) 
 
 The robbery occurred about 6:30 p.m. in the parking ... more Photo: Rosenberg Police 
 
 Image 6 of 32 The Port Lavaca Police Department says this was a mask the perpetrator was wearing, but we haven't ruled out Satan entirely. The Port Lavaca Police Department says this was a mask the perpetrator was wearing, but we haven't ruled out Satan entirely. 
 
 Image 7 of 32 This suspect is accused of wearing John Lennon's glasses. 
 
 This suspect is accused of wearing John Lennon's glasses. Photo: SLPD 
 
 Image 8 of 32 He's not much to look at, but he is a heck of a dresser. 
 
 He's not much to look at, but he is a heck of a dresser. Photo: Carl Court, Associated Press 
 
 Image 9 of 32 Not sure if that's a hood, or a really creepy ear-to-ear smile. 
 
 Not sure if that's a hood, or a really creepy ear-to-ear smile. Photo: CrimeStoppers 
 
 Image 10 of 32 This sketch put more detail into the folds of the bandana than any of the few facial details show. Thanks, sketch - you've been very helpful. 
 
 This sketch put more detail into the folds of the bandana than any of the few facial details show. Thanks, sketch - you've been very helpful. 
 
 Image 11 of 32 Wonder what's worse: getting caught, or being described with "big love handles" in your police sketch. 
 
 Wonder what's worse: getting caught, or being described with "big love handles" in your police sketch. 
 
 Image 12 of 32 So basically Fort Bend County law enforcement is looking for an androgynous being in a druid robe with a neck laceration that could make his/her/its head fall off at any time. So basically Fort Bend County law enforcement is looking for an androgynous being in a druid robe with a neck laceration that could make his/her/its head fall off at any time. Photo: Fort Bend County Crime Stoppers 
 
 Image 13 of 32 This would not be the photo we'd suggest for this suspect's Match.com profile ... though it does provide lots of extra details. 
 
 This would not be the photo we'd suggest for this suspect's Match.com profile ... though it does provide lots of extra details. Photo: HPD 
 
 Image 14 of 32 We're guessing this suspect does a lot of arm wrestling ... and not a lot of eyebrow tweezing. 
 
 We're guessing this suspect does a lot of arm wrestling ... and not a lot of eyebrow tweezing. 
 
 Image 15 of 32 Suspect was last seen looking completely ridiculous. 
 
 Suspect was last seen looking completely ridiculous. Photo: FBI 
 
 Image 16 of 32 So basically we're looking for someone with eyes. 
 
 So basically we're looking for someone with eyes. Photo: Houston Police Department 
 
 Image 17 of 32 This artist didn't make effective use of the amount of paper he had. 
 
 This artist didn't make effective use of the amount of paper he had. Photo: City Of Galveston 
 
 Image 18 of 32 This suspect wouldn't stand still in the center of frame while he was being drawn. There's no other explanation for why he's so off-center. 
 
 This suspect wouldn't stand still in the center of frame while he was being drawn. There's no other explanation for why he's so off-center. Photo: HPD 
 
 Image 19 of 32 He may be "husky," but at least he's husky and "muscular." 
 
 He may be "husky," but at least he's husky and "muscular." Photo: Houston PD 
 
 Image 20 of 32 It's nice to know this guy loves his mom, but was he wearing a hat and had hair on the side of his head, or was he not wearing a hat and had a mohawk? Also, shouldn't the sketch that shows his whole face be the bigger shot, not the one with just his ear? less It's nice to know this guy loves his mom, but was he wearing a hat and had hair on the side of his head, or was he not wearing a hat and had a mohawk? Also, shouldn't the sketch that shows his whole face be the ... more Photo: Harris County SO 
 
 Image 21 of 32 So you're saying he's a Celtics fans? 
 
 So you're saying he's a Celtics fans? Photo: Harris County SO 
 
 Image 22 of 32 He may be a "fat guy" but he's rocking those hipster glasses. 
 
 He may be a "fat guy" but he's rocking those hipster glasses. Photo: HPD 
 
 Image 23 of 32 Suspect is described as having a face like an upside-down acorn. 
 
 Suspect is described as having a face like an upside-down acorn. Photo: Uncredited, Associated Press 
 
 Image 24 of 32 This well-drawn hipster was in trouble with the law before it was cool. 
 
 This well-drawn hipster was in trouble with the law before it was cool. Photo: Portland Police Department 
 
 Image 25 of 32 Police describe this suspect as a "social butterfly." Really. 
 
 Police describe this suspect as a "social butterfly." Really. Photo: Harris County Sheriff's Office 
 
 Image 26 of 32 This suspect was described as having a "little beer belly." 
 
 This suspect was described as having a "little beer belly." Photo: Cody Duty 
 
 Image 27 of 32 Be on the lookout for anyone wearing a hoodie and glasses, because it's probably the guy. 
 
 Be on the lookout for anyone wearing a hoodie and glasses, because it's probably the guy. Photo: Handout 
 
 Image 28 of 32 Suspect is described as heavily airbrushed with one ear three times the size as the other. 
 
 Suspect is described as heavily airbrushed with one ear three times the size as the other. Photo: FBI 
 
 Image 29 of 32 It bothers us that the sketch artist decided to make this suspect look so dreamy and then all but dotted the 'i' in her name with a heart. 
 
 It bothers us that the sketch artist decided to make this suspect look so dreamy and then all but dotted the 'i' in her name with a heart. Photo: HCSO 
 
 Image 30 of 32 Suspect is described as looking like Winston from "Ghostbusters." 
 
 Suspect is described as looking like Winston from "Ghostbusters." Photo: Crime Stoppers 
 
 Image 31 of 32 
 
 less The Lamar County Sheriff's Department says that this man –or cartoon, or Muppet, actually, we're not sure from the drawing – robbed two women at knife point earlier this month in Paris, Texas ( full story here ). Hopefully, police have more to go on than this, ahem, "drawing." Check out more of some of the weirdest police sketches and descriptions ever. The Lamar County Sheriff's Department says that this man –or cartoon, or Muppet, actually, we're not sure from the drawing – robbed two women at knife point earlier this month in Paris, Texas ( full story ... more