Source: Multi-News

CLOSE The latest comedian accused of joke theft is Conan O'Brien and his writing team. Conan’s team says that they were unaware of Alex Kaseberg's jokes until after they’d written their own. USA TODAY 
 
 Conan O'Brien at City Hall in Oslo, Norway, Dec. 10, 2016. (Photo: VEGARD WIVESTAD, EPA) 
 
 It could be the next big celebrity trial: Conan O'Brien defending himself and his writers in federal civil court against accusations of "joke-stealing" — the worst thing you could say about a comedian, according to O'Brien. 
 
 But don't go signing up for courtroom tickets just yet. Experts in copyright law say the 2-year-old copyright infringement lawsuit filed against O'Brien, his writers for his late-night show, Conan, and Time Warner over a handful of topical jokes may never get before a jury, despite a ruling by a judge that the case can proceed. 
 
 The stakes are high, not just in time and litigation costs but in "reputational" costs: No comedian wants to be known as a joke thief. "Accusing a comedian of stealing a joke is the worst thing you can accuse them of, in my opinion, short of murder," O'Brien said in a deposition in the case. "I think it's absolutely terrible." 
 
 Thus, O'Brien and the plaintiff in the case, a freelance joke writer in San Diego named Robert "Alex" Kaseberg, have to weigh the risks and benefits of going to trial and possibly losing, or negotiating a settlement that could leave a whiff of suspected thievery in the Conan writers' room. 
 
 "Comics rarely sue one another, and to some degree this case illustrates why," says New York University law professor Christopher Sprigman , a leading expert in intellectual property law involving comedy. "The judge (in the O'Brien case) ruled the case could go forward but the ruling makes it difficult" for the plaintiff to prevail. 
 
 New York intellectual property lawyer and mediator Arnie Herz says the ruling showed the judge "did not say that anyone did anything wrong, she was saying there was enough to go to a jury." 
 
 But will it? It's impossible to predict, Sprigman says, but settling could be tricky for O'Brien. 
 
 "Among comics, joke stealing is really, really bad behavior — no one wants to go down as a joke thief, so the settlement has to make absolutely clear that no one is admitting any wrongdoing," Sprigman says. "(O'Brien) has got to worry about how his fellow comedians would react to that." 
 
 "It's no joking matter," cracks Herz, who says most IP cases are settled before trial. If a "reasonable settlement" can be achieved, it behooves all involved to resolve the case, he says. 
 
 "There are strong economic reasons to resolve this (before trial) because these are not easy cases to prevail, there are high standards plaintiffs have to prove," says Herz. "At a trial, it depends on how a jury views the plaintiff and Conan O'Brien. The plaintiff and his lawyers could end up with nothing, so they don't want to put in a ton of time and money and end up losing." 
 
 O'Brien's legal woes were on display Monday after U.S. District Court Judge Janis Sammartino ruled Friday that a jury can decide whether O'Brien and his writers stole three jokes dealing with Tom Brady, Caitlyn Jenner and the Washington Monument from Kaseberg's social media feed and blog between December 2014 and June 2015. (Two other jokes were dropped from the case.) 
 
 The Brady joke had Brady giving his MVP truck "to the man who won the game for Patriots" — Pete Carroll. The Jenner joke involved Caitlyn's gender transition and towns with streets named after Bruce Jenner. And the Washington Monument jibe was a penis joke based on news that the obelisk is actually 10 inches shorter than previously thought and maybe it was due to cold weather. 
 
 But the judge warned that jokes based on current events and news are entitled only to "thin" copyright protection — meaning the jokes in question have to be virtually identical in order to find a defendant guilty of copyright infringement, says Sprigman. Also, a jury would have to conclude that the defendant had access to the jokes and willfully copied them, Herz adds. 
 
 Conan O'Brien during the 2016 Nobel Peace Prize Concert in Oslo, Norway, Dec. 11, 2016. (Photo: JON OLAV, EPA) 
 
 Unlike patents, creators can't get ownership of ideas or facts or events on which jokes are based, only the manner in which they are expressed, Herz says. Plus, the allegedly stolen joke has to be "fixed" in a tangible means of expression, either recorded or published. 
 
 "If it turns out the jokes copied from a Twitter feed were virtually identical to the jokes as told (by O'Brien), then maybe he wants to take the reputational hit and settle," Sprigman says."If there's doubt about whether they were copied or are identical, he could go to trial and roll the dice. It’s a pickle no matter what." 
 
 Intellectual property lawsuits involving comedy are exceedingly rare; it's been "decades and decades" since the last one, says Sprigman, co-author of a 2008 paper, There's No Free Laugh (Anymore): The Emergence of Intellectual Property Norms and the Transformation of Stand-Up Comedy, that explored how comedians protect their jokes against thieves by enforcing their own comedy-community norms, and not through intellectual property law. 
 
 He and his co-author, Dotan Oliar, interviewed comedians, their lawyers and their agents, and found that comics have long employed out-of-court means of addressing accusations of theft. 
 
 "They typically handle it through community policing, they have a set of norms on joke thievery and they enforce them through various means," Sprigman says. "Copyright lawsuits typically don’t work that well (in these cases) — they're expensive and often they don't have good results for plaintiffs." 
 
 Neither O'Brien nor his lawyers returned messages from USA TODAY. Same for Kaseberg and his lawyer. 
 
 But on Wednesday, O'Brien's publicists at 42 West in New York issued a statement on his behalf in an email to USA TODAY from Amanda Nesbitt: "We are very pleased that the court has granted summary judgment and dismissed two of the jokes at issue. We can't comment further on pending litigation, but we are extremely confident that once the facts are presented to a jury, we will be fully vindicated." 
 
 Kaseberg said on his blog he's a comedy writer who's contributed hundreds of jokes to The Tonight Show with Jay Leno for 20 years. In a February 2015 post, he describes his version of how his jokes allegedly were stolen by O'Brien's writers. 
 
 "The only consolation I can take from this horrifying violation is I wrote three jokes that were good enough to be on the monologue on Conan. And they all got good laughs," he said. "Since I cannot watch the show again – it is too painful – and I have lost respect for one of my comedy idols, that consolation will have to be enough." 
 
 Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2rjBrAh ||||| 
 
 Conan O’Brien makes an appearance at Harvard University on Feb. 12, 2016. (Charles Krupa/AP) 
 
 U.S. District Court Judge Janis Sammartino recently refused to toss out an unusual lawsuit accusing late-night host Conan O’Brien and his writing staff of stealing jokes from a professional joke writer’s blog and Twitter feed, claiming some were entitled to “thin copyright protection.” 
 
 Robert “Alex” Kaseberg, a writer who has penned more than 1,000 jokes for Jay Leno, accused O’Brien of telling five of his jokes in his monologue on “Conan.” Kaseberg said he wrote and posted the jokes online between Dec. 2, 2014, and June 9, 2015. 
 
 Kaseberg wrote on his blog he was convinced O’Brien’s team was stealing his material after the third time he heard the comedian tell a joke he had recently posted. 
 
 “Two times there is an impossibly slight possibility of a joke-writing coincidence, three times there is no possibility of a coincidence,” he wrote. “And always used on the monologue one day or, in the case of the third time, six hours after it appeared on my blog and or Twitter.” 
 
 Kaseberg said he reached out to O’Brien’s writing team but was rebuked. He then filed suit against O’Brien, his writing staff, Turner Broadcasting and Time Warner in July 2015. O’Brien and the other parties denied any joke theft and requested that the case be dismissed. 
 
 In her opinion issued Friday, the judge allowed the suit to proceed to trial but threw out two jokes. The suit will proceed on the other three. 
 
 The judge noted the difficulty of proving that a joke was stolen. 
 
 “Facts, of course, are not protected by copyright,” she wrote. “And although the punchlines of the jokes are creative, they are nonetheless constrained by the limited number of variations that would (1) be humorous (2) as applied to the specific facts articulated in each joke’s previous sentence and (3) provide mass appeal. This merits only thin protection.” 
 
 Because of such “thin protection,” there has not been an intellectual property lawsuit concerning comedy in “decades and decades,” New York University law professor Christopher Sprigman told USA Today. 
 
 “Comics rarely sue one another, and to some degree this case illustrates why,” he added. “The judge ruled the case could go forward but the ruling makes it difficult” for Kaseberg to win. 
 
 Even so, Kaseberg’s lawyer, Jayson Lorenzo, called the ruling “a victory for comedy writers, especially lesser known writers,” in a statement to the New York Times. 
 
 The three jokes in question, according to court documents: 
 
 The Tom Brady joke 
 
 Kaseberg: “Tom Brady said he wants to give his MVP truck to the man who won the game for the Patriots. So enjoy that truck, Pete Carroll.” 
 
 O’Brien: “Tom Brady said he wants to give the truck that he was given as Super Bowl MVP … to the guy who won the Super Bowl for the Patriots. Which is very nice. I think that’s nice. I do. Yes. So Brady’s giving his truck to Seahawks coach Pete Carroll.” 
 
 The Caitlyn Jenner joke 
 
 Kaseberg: “Three towns, two in Texas, one in Tennessee, have streets named after Bruce Jenner and now they have to consider changing them to Caitlyn. And one will have to change from a Cul-De-Sac to a Cul-De-Sackless.” 
 
 O’Brien: “Some cities that have streets named after Bruce Jenner are trying to change the streets’ names to Caitlyn Jenner. If you live on Bruce Jenner Cul-de-sac it will now be Cul-de-no-sack.” 
 
 The Washington Monument joke 
 
 Kaseberg: “The Washington Monument is ten inches shorter than previously thought. You know the winter has been cold when a monument suffers from shrinkage.” 
 
 O’Brien: “Yesterday surveyors announced that the Washington Monument is ten inches shorter than what’s been previously recorded. Yeah. Of course, the monument is blaming the shrinkage on the cold weather.” 
 
 “The only consolation I can take from this horrifying violation is I wrote three jokes that were good enough to be on the monologue on ‘Conan.’ And they all got good laughs,” Kaseberg wrote on his blog in 2015. “Since I cannot watch the show again — it is too painful — and I have lost respect for one of my comedy idols, that consolation will have to be enough.” 
 
 O’Brien also appeared to be emotionally affected by the situation. 
 
 “Accusing a comedian of stealing a joke is the worst thing you can accuse them of, in my opinion, short of murder,” O’Brien said during a deposition in the case, according to the Hollywood Reporter. “I think it’s absolutely terrible.” 
 
 The trial is on pace to take place in August, CBS reported. 
 
 More from Morning Mix 
 
 Mom saves her daughter’s life before being fatally struck by car on Mother’s Day 
 
 ‘I was in total shock’: Ohio police officer accidentally overdoses after traffic stop 
 
 Mass. school punishes twins for hair braid extensions. Their parents say it’s racial discrimination. ||||| These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.The goal is to fix all broken links on the web . Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites.