Source: Multi-News

The Spy Who Loved Me 
 
 In her 20s, Avril Haines held erotica readings at the Baltimore bookstore and restaurant she co-owned at the time. Ben Jacobs and Avi Zenilman report. 
 
 The former host of “Erotica Night” at a Baltimore bookstore will be the first-ever female No. 2 official at the CIA. 
 
 On Wednesday, Barack Obama nominated Avril Danica Haines to be the deputy director of the CIA, replacing Michael Morell, who twice served as acting director of the agency but took much of the blame for editing the highly controversial talking points around the 2012 attack on the consulate in Benghazi. As a lawyer in the White House Counsel’s office, Haines oversaw the approval process for the CIA's covert actions, acting as a vital link between the CIA and the president. 
 
 But 20 years ago, Haines opened and co-owned Adrian’s Book Café in the Baltimore waterfront neighborhood of Fells Point. She opened Adrian’s after dropping out of a graduate program in physics at Johns Hopkins University. The store featured regular “Erotica Nights.” including dinner and a series of readings by guests of published work or their own prose, according to a 1995 report in the Baltimore Sun; couples could attend for $30, while singles paid $17. 
 
 "Erotica has become more prevalent because people are trying to have sex without having sex. Others are trying to find new fantasies to make their monogamous relationships more satisfying,” Haines, then in her 20s, told the Sun. “What the erotic offers is spontaneity, twists and turns. And it affects everyone." (She also told Baltimore Sun reporter Mary Corey that friends heckled “you just want a mass orgy in your bookstore, while she and her co-owner were initially worried only "dirty old men" would show up.) 
 
 The event Corey attended at the bookstore featured a room lit with red candles where guests held chicken tostadas, waiting to eat as Haines read aloud the opening pages of The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty, by Anne Rice writing under the pseudonym A.N. Roquelaire, which features passages such as: 
 
 “He mounted her, parting her legs, giving the white inner flesh of her thighs a soft deep pinch, and, clasping her right breast in his hand, he thrust his sex into her. 
 
 He was holding her up as he did this, to gather her mouth to him, and as he broke through her innocence, he opened her mouth with his tongue and pinched her breast sharply.” 
 
 But her bookstore was hardly defined by erotica (which was shelved between self-help and parenting), stocking titles from a variety of smaller publishing houses and local authors, and offering a café. Haines was also well respected in the close-knit waterfront neighborhood of Fells Point, according to former neighbors. 
 
 One of them, long-time neighborhood fixture Steve Bunker, who has since retired to Maine, raved about Haines to The Daily Beast, saying “She’s brilliant, has a genius IQ, is easy to work with, and reliable.” He recalled going to New Year’s Eve parties with her at the $22 million dollar townhouses then owned by her father, Dr. Thomas Haines, a liberal activist and noted chemist, on the Upper West Side of New York. 
 
 Another property owner in the neighborhood, Howard Barstop, raved about Haines’ work ethic, reminiscing about when she would rehab her apartment in “jeans or a pair of shorts.” 
 
 At an agency recently rocked by revelations about then-Director David Petraeus’s secret erotic emails while having an affair with his biographer, Haines’s bookstore past seems considerably more appealing, and about as racy as what a reader might find in a Lewis Libby or Jim Webb novel. 
 
 ||||| The C.I.A.’s deputy director, Michael J. Morell, is retiring after 33 years at the agency and will be replaced by Avril D. Haines, the top lawyer at the National Security Council, the C.I.A.’s director, John O. Brennan, announced Wednesday. 
 
 The switch will put a woman in one of the agency’s top two jobs for the first time. Ms. Haines is an unusual choice because she is not an intelligence professional, though in her two years at the White House she has been deeply involved in intelligence programs and got to know Mr. Brennan when he was President Obama’s counterterrorism adviser. 
 
 In April, the president had nominated Ms. Haines to become the legal adviser at the State Department, a job in which she would also have been the first woman. But with Mr. Morell’s departure, he evidently decided to shift her to the C.I.A. post. 
 
 The agency’s deputy director is not subject to Senate confirmation. 
 
 Mr. Morell, 54, is leaving voluntarily, officials said, after a full career that has included two recent stints as acting director of the spy agency, first after the departure of Leon E. Panetta in 2011 and then after the resignation of David H. Petraeus last year over a sex scandal. He was a leading candidate for the top job, but Mr. Obama chose Mr. Brennan in January, and colleagues said then that Mr. Morell was likely to retire. ||||| Deputy CIA Director Michael Morell is retiring and President Barack Obama has selected a White House lawyer, Avril D. Haines, to replace him at the spy agency. 
 
 Morell, 54, who began at the Central Intelligence Agency in 1980 as an analyst, helped draft the administration’s talking points on the attack on diplomatic facilities in Benghazi, Libya. He will become a member of the President’s Intelligence Advisory Board, the White House said in a statement. 
 
 Taking over the job is Haines, 43, who has been deputy counsel to the president for national security affairs since 2010, marking the first time a woman has ascended to the agency’s second highest position. While she previously worked at the State Department and on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, she does not have a background in intelligence work. 
 
 “I am proud that such experienced and committed individuals have agreed to serve the American people in these important roles,” Obama said in a statement. “I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead.” 
 
 With United Nations Ambassador Susan Rice scheduled to become Obama’s national security adviser in July and former adviser Samantha Power nominated to replace Rice at the UN, Obama’s foreign policy team has three women in top positions. 
 
 Morell, who served as acting director following the resignation of David Petraeus in November until John Brennan was confirmed as CIA director in March, said he’s leaving to devote more time to his family. 
 
 Family Concerns 
 
 “Whenever someone involved in the rough and tumble of Washington decides to move on, there is speculation in various quarters about the ‘real reason,’” Morell said in a statement. “But when I say that it is time for my family, nothing could be more real than that.” 
 
 Brennan, who was Obama’s counterterrorism adviser before taking over at the CIA, said he’s worked closely with Haines over the past several years. She’s been a regular participant in high-level meetings and headed a group of lawyers that reviews the CIA’s most sensitive programs, he said in a statement. 
 
 He also thanked Morell for helping him make the transition back to the agency. 
 
 Morell, who also was one of President George W. Bush’s intelligence briefers, has come under criticism from Republicans over the Benghazi talking points, which removed any reference to al-Qaeda from the administration’s initial explanation of the Sept. 11, 2012, attack that killed U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans. 
 
 Talking Points 
 
 The talking points were used by Rice on Sunday talk shows to describe the Benghazi attack as growing out of a spontaneous demonstration sparked by a movie trailer that Muslims found offensive to their religion. Republicans have conducted multiple hearings on the administration’s response. 
 
 When the Obama administration released almost 100 pages of e-mails about the origins of the talking points last month, administration officials said that they showed that it was Morell, a career CIA employee, who made the final edits to the document. 
 
 That chain of authorship allowed the Obama administration to preserve its argument that the White House made only minor edits to a document that originated in the intelligence community. 
 
 Final Draft 
 
 References to al-Qaeda were removed while the document was still being drafted by the CIA, according to White House officials who briefed reporters. It was eventually replaced with “Islamic extremist,” in the final draft. 
 
 Morell didn’t mention the Benghazi controversy in his public notice about his retire. 
 
 “I am passionate about two things in this world -- the agency and my family,” he said in a statement emailed to CIA employees. “And while I have given everything I have to the Central Intelligence Agency and its vital mission for a third of a century, it is now time for me to give everything I have to my family.” 
 
 To contact the reporter on this story: Hans Nichols in Washington at hnichols2@bloomberg.net 
 
 To contact the editor responsible for this story: Steven Komarow at skomarow1@bloomberg.net