Source: Multi-News

Desperate for money, troubled actress Lindsay Lohan is still living the high life by working as a professional escort, her father Michael Lohan and other insiders exclusively revealed in the new issue of Star magazine. 
 
 “She is getting paid to date rich men,” Michael said of his 26-year-old daughter. “Dina (Lindsay’s mother) is pimping her out – it’s disgusting!” 
 
 PHOTOS: Lindsay Lohan Through The Years 
 
 And it’s not just the Mean Girls star’s estranged dad who is dishing on her new source of income. 
 
 “The dates last for days, and the guys pay for everything – hotel, travel costs, food, whatever – as well as jewelry and other gifts,” someone close to the actress revealed. 
 
 PHOTOS: Lindsay Lohan’s Mugshot Hall Of Fame 
 
 So far, no one is suggesting that Lohan is doing anything more than act as arm candy for the rich playboys who like to be seen with beautiful and famous women. 
 
 One of Lindsay’s most high profile clients is the man who is third in line to the throne of Brunei, a small country in Southeast Asia: Prince Haji Abdul Azim. 
 
 PHOTOS: Lindsay Lohan Parties Until Dawn In London 
 
 A billionaire playboy who loves American celebrities, he allegedly paid Lindsay a whopping $100,000 to join him in London for a New Year’s celebration. 
 
 And wealthy Spanish-American painter Domingo Zapata reportedly supported the troubled actress for much longer than a holiday. 
 
 PHOTOS: Lindsay Suffers Nip Slip On Set Of Liz & Dick 
 
 “Domingo let Lindsay live in his penthouse at the Bowery Hotel in NYC for free and at his L.A. pad at Chateau Marmont [for months],” says one of his confidantes. “They’re both super swanky. No way Lindsay could’ve afforded either of them for such long periods of time on her own.” 
 
 For the full scandalous story, the new issue of Star magazine is on newsstands Thursday. ||||| As if Lindsay Lohan wasn't in enough of a mess already! Staffers at the W hotel in NYC's Union Square "are still cleaning up" after the 26-year-old courtroom fixture's visit last fall, a source tells Us Weekly. 
 
 "Her suite had so many cigarette burns, they had to change all the carpets," the source says of the hot spot where the drama-prone Liz and Dick actress bunked for several weeks. "She did at least $50,000 worth of damage while partying." 
 
 PHOTOS: Lindsay's hair evolution 
 
 And Lohan shouldn't dare check in again. Says the insider: "She is not allowed back at any W hotel in NYC, ever!" 
 
 PHOTOS: Lindsay's biggest dramas 
 
 Find out more about Lohan's latest problem in the latest Hot Stuff video, as explained by Us Weekly's Senior Editor Ian Drew with special guest Renee Graziano of VH1's Mob Wives. Also in the roundup? More on Justin Bieber's split with Selena Gomez, newlyweds Hugh Hefner and Crystal Harris' prenup, and what went down with Zoe Saldana and Bradley Cooper. 
 
 Watch the video now! ||||| Lindsay Lohan Stupidly Pulls Plug On Rehab Plea Deal 
 
 Lindsay Lohan Stupidly Pulls Plug On Rehab Plea Deal 
 
 EXCLUSIVE 
 
 COULD have avoided almost certain jail time by accepting a plea deal for lockdown rehab -- that is, if she didn't fire her lawyer who was literally on the way to the courthouse to make it happen.Law enforcement sources tell TMZ ... the Santa Monica City Attorney -- who is prosecuting Lindsay for allegedly lying to cops after her June car crash on Pacific Coast Highway -- was willing to keep Lindsay out of jail, PROVIDED she agree to check into "lockdown rehab" for 6 months.Sources say ...-- the lawyer who has kept Lindsay out of jail -- was on her way to court Monday to meet with the prosecutor and the judge to hash out the deal. What's more, Lindsay also faces jail time for a probation violation in the jewelry heist case because she allegedly lied to cops after the crash. We're told the judge could have agreed to end both cases if Lindsay checked into rehab.But Shawn never made it to court, because Lindsay signed her walking papers and hired a New York lawyer who was suspended in the '90s from practicing law for 5 years.Lindsay now says she wants Shawn back. The question -- does Shawn have the stomach for another helping of Lindsay?There's a hearing scheduled for 8:30 AM PT today. Shawn will probably show up because she's still counsel of record. If she stays on the case, prosecutors could present the deal to her, but Lindsay is making it all very difficult. ||||| Lindsay Lohan never seems to make things easy. First, there were tabloid reports that she fired her longtime lawyer, Shawn Holley, just as Holley was about to go make a plea deal and help the star out of jet another legal jam. Then later this morning in Los Angeles, Holley appeared in court on Lohan's behalf, entering her plea of not guilty. 
 
 Lohan's arraignment had to do with her car wreck during the filming of car wreck Liz & Dick in June. Per the AP, Lohan, who was on probation for her jewelry theft case at the time, is charged with lying to police about whether or not she was behind the wheel, obstructing police from doing their job, and reckless driving. 
 
 But yesterday it seemed like there would be a major hitch to today's proceedings (at which Lohan was not required to attend). Per TMZ, Holley was heading to court yesterday to make a plea deal for Lohan when Lohan fired her. The deal would have kept Lohan out of jail and put her in rehab. Holley was apparently replaced by New York lawyer Mark Heller, who has a quite fascinating tale of his own, according to this 2010 New York Times profile. Heller was speaking on Lohan's behalf around the time of her November arrest for assault. 
 
 So in court today the judge asked Holley if she still represented Lohan. Holley responded, per TMZ: "At this point, yes." Lohan is now scheduled to appear January 30. 
 
 Want to add to this story? Let us know in comments or send an email to the author at ezuckerman at theatlantic dot com. You can share ideas for stories on the Open Wire. 
 
 Esther Zuckerman