Source: Multi-News

FILE — Arron Lewis is escorted by authorities at the Pulaski County sheriff's office in this September 2014 file photo. - Photo by Ron Blome / NBC News 
 
 Authorities overnight found the body of missing real estate agent Beverly Carter buried in a shallow grave on property in Cabot, and the man arrested in her kidnapping has entered a preliminary innocent plea to a capital murder charge. 
 
 The Pulaski County sheriff's office questioned Arron Lewis for more than 12 hours after his arrest Monday in the abduction of Carter, who disappeared Thursday after going to show a home in Scott. Investigators found her body more than 20 miles away Tuesday at Argos Concrete Co., 12117 Arkansas 5 in Cabot, in a rural area about 25 miles northeast of Little Rock. Lewis used to work for the business. 
 
 "We have reason to believe he's been on the property and is familiar with it," Pulaski County sheriff's office spokesman Lt. Carl Minden said. 
 
 Lewis admitted kidnapping Carter, the sheriff's office said, but wouldn't say where she was during the lengthy questioning. Shortly after being taken to the jail, investigators got a "major break in the case" that led them to the concrete business in far northern Pulaski County. 
 
 "They obtained permission to search the property," Minden said at the scene. "During the search of the property, they did find a shallow grave toward the back of the property," he said. "After they uncovered it, it was positively identified as Beverly Carter." 
 
 Lewis told reporters Tuesday as he was being taken from the jail to the sheriff's office that he didn't kill Carter, and described her as "a woman that worked alone — a rich broker." [FULL VIDEO] 
 
 Lewis did say he was sorry, Minden said, and he admitted to investigators that he abducted Carter, evidence that "strongly ties him to the case." But there are unanswered questions. 
 
 "Why'd he pick her? Why'd he do what he did? There's a lot of things we'll have to piece together," Minden said. 
 
 In the video of him being escorted from the sheriff's office, Lewis says he has a "codefendant" named "Trevor." But Minden said authorities aren't seeking anyone else believed to be involved in the kidnapping and murder. 
 
 "[Lewis] is the only suspect we have in the case and at this point the only person we're going to be looking for," he said. 
 
 Pulaski County Sheriff Doc Holladay also addressed the subject of "Trevor" at an afternoon news conference, saying, "We had him yesterday, interviewed him extensively. We do not believe at this point he was involved in the commission of this crime.” 
 
 Pulaski County Chief Deputy Prosecuting Attorney John Johnson said Lewis appeared Tuesday morning in Pulaski County District Court and entered preliminary innocent pleas to charges of capital murder and kidnapping. He was ordered held without bail. 
 
 Johnson said he couldn’t comment about the case itself. 
 
 Carter, 50, an agent for Crye-Leike Realtors in North Little Rock, told her husband by phone Thursday evening that she was going to show someone a home at 14202 Old River Drive. When she didn't return home later that night, Carter's husband went to the house and found her sport utility vehicle parked outside with her purse in it and the door to the home open. But there was no sign of Carter. 
 
 Police and dozens of volunteers spent the weekend searching the area around the home for clues in the disappearance. 
 
 Minden said the sheriff's office "extends their deepest condolences to the Carter family for their tragic loss." 
 
 "It's just not what we wanted," he said, standing outside the concrete business. "Our hope was and the fact of him not coming out and saying 'I did it' — that kept our hopes up we could find her alive. But once he ceased talking to us and we were out here on this location, it's devastating to a certain point. Because you just had better hopes." 
 
 Police haven't said how investigators linked Lewis to Carter's disappearance, but the sheriff said more details will be released at a Tuesday afternoon news conference. 
 
 "I just want to express my condolences to the Carter family and her friends who have worked so hard to find her and these investigators who were committed to finding her," Holladay told reporters Tuesday morning. 
 
 See Wednesday's Arkansas Democrat-Gazette for more on this story. 
 
 To view this video, you need to have Flash Player 8.0 or later installed. Click here to get the latest Flash player. To view this video, you need to have Flash Player 8.0 or later installed. Click here to get the latest Flash player. 
 
 Officials discuss Beverly Carter case at news conference Pulaski County Sheriff Doc Holladay and Prosecutor Larry Jegley were among those answering questions Tuesday afternoon at a news conference on the Beverly Carter case. (By Gavin Lesnick) 
 
 [View Full-Size] 
 
 Realtor's body found in shallow grave; Lewis charged with murder Authorities early Tuesday found the body of missing Realtor Beverly Carter in a shallow grave outside Cabot. Aaron Lewis, who had been arrested in her kidnapping, is now charged with capital murder. (By Gavin Lesnick) 
 
 [View Full-Size] 
 
 Photo by Pulaski County sheriff's office 
 
 Arron Lewis 
 
 Photo by Gavin Lesnick 
 
 Pulaski County sheriff's deputies work Argos Concrete Co., 12117 Arkansas 5 in Cabot, where Realtor Beverly Carter's body was found buried behind the building Tuesday, Sept. 30, 2014. 
 
 Photo by Gavin Lesnick 
 
 Pulaski County sheriff's deputies work in 12100 block of Arkansas 5 in Cabot, where Realtor Beverly Carter's body was found buried behind the building Tuesday, Sept. 30, 2014. ||||| The Arkansas man who faces capital murder charges in the death of a real estate broker whose body was found early Tuesday in a shallow grave told reporters she was chosen because "she was a woman that worked alone -- a rich broker." 
 
 Arron Lewis, the suspect, denied killing Beverly Carter, and mentioned a co-defendant during the brief comments to reporters Tuesday while being led by police in handcuffs. Police said at a Tuesday press conference they are not seeking any other suspects. 
 
 Lewis appeared in court Tuesday and pleaded not guilty to one count each of capital murder, kidnapping and robbery, as well as four weapons charges, according to the office of Pulaski County District Judge Wayne Gruber. 
 
 Carter had been missing since Thursday afternoon, when authorities say she had planned to show a house in the town of Scott, but never returned from the appointment. 
 
 Her body was found in a shallow grave at a concrete company in a rural area about 25 miles northeast of Little Rock. Police say Lewis has admitted to kidnapping Carter. 
 
 More On This... 
 
 Lewis was arrested Monday morning, a day after authorities identified him as a suspect in the case. Fox16.com reported that a passerby recognized him outside a Subway restaurant in West Little Rock and chased him into an apartment complex along with a group of other men. Lewis was hiding in a manager's office when he was apprehended, police said. 
 
 It is not clear how investigators initially connected Lewis to the case. According to the sheriff's office, Lewis was questioned for more than 12 hours Monday. Lewis admitted to kidnapping Carter, but did not divulge her whereabouts. At some point Monday, investigators received a tip leading them to the address where she was found. 
 
 Pulaski County Lt. Carl Minden said that Lewis was on parole until 2017 for previous convictions in northwest Arkansas. He did not reveal whether Lewis was the client Carter was planning to meet. 
 
 Police said Carter’s purse was found in her vehicle outside the home Friday and the door to the residence she was showing was left open. Detectives believe Carter was taken from the home. 
 
 Carl Carter, her husband, told First Coast News that he received a text from Beverly around 1 a.m. Friday, the morning after her disappearance. 
 
 But he said the message didn’t sound like her at all. 
 
 "All of a sudden I received three texts in a row. One said 'Yes.'… Then she sent another text that said, 'My phone's low. The battery's down, and I'll call you whenever I get signal.' …And, then, straight back-to-back, I received a text that said 'Oh, I'm out drinking with some friends,'" he told the station. "Beverly's not a drinker." 
 
 The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
 
 Click for more from Fox16.com. ||||| This undated photo provided by the Pulaski County Sheriff’s Office shows Beverly Carter. Authorities say Carter's body was found early Tuesday, Sept. 30, 2014, in a shallow grave at a concrete company,... (Associated Press) 
 
 This undated photo provided by the Pulaski County Sheriff’s Office shows Beverly Carter. Authorities say Carter's body was found early Tuesday, Sept. 30, 2014, in a shallow grave at a concrete company,... (Associated Press) 
 
 LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) — A man accused of abducting and killing a real estate agent in rural Arkansas pleaded not guilty Tuesday to preliminary charges of kidnapping and capital murder, hours after the woman's body was discovered in a shallow grave. 
 
 Arron Michael Lewis appeared in court Tuesday and pleaded not guilty to one count each of capital murder, kidnapping and robbery, as well as four weapons charges, according to the office of Pulaski County District Judge Wayne Gruber. 
 
 Early Tuesday morning, investigators found the body of Beverly Carter, 49, at Argos Concrete Company in a rural area about 25 miles northeast of Little Rock and more than 20 miles away from Scott, where she had an appointment to show a house Thursday but hadn't been seen since. 
 
 Pulaski County Sheriff's Office Lt. Carl Minden said Lewis admitted to kidnapping Carter but did not lead authorities to her body. He said investigators received a tip that led them to the concrete company where Carter's body was found. 
 
 Lewis previously worked for the concrete company, the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette reported Tuesday. Lewis, 33, was being held on $1 million bail in the Pulaski County jail. 
 
 Lewis spoke briefly to reporters Tuesday morning as he was taken from the jail to the sheriff's office, where he was interviewed again after spending more than 12 hours with investigators Monday. 
 
 When asked by reporters why Carter was targeted, Lewis responded: "Because she was just a woman that worked alone — a rich broker." He denied killing her. 
 
 Police haven't said how investigators linked Lewis to Carter's disappearance, but Sheriff Doc Holladay said more details will be released at a Tuesday afternoon news conference. 
 
 "I just want to express my condolences to the Carter family and her friends who have worked so hard to find her and these investigators who were committed to finding her," Holladay told reporters Tuesday morning. 
 
 ___ 
 
 Follow Jill Bleed on Twitter at www.twitter.com/jzbleed