Source: Multi-News

A City Council Attendee Just Rushed Mayor Ted Wheeler With A Pepsi 
 
 This was probably unavoidable. It was also super uncomfortable. 
 
 Toward the end of this morning's City Council meeting, as the body was taking up an ordinance that would allow Portland Parks and Recreation to more easily tow boats left on city docks, a man rushed Ted Wheeler and handed him a Pepsi. 
 
 The man identified himself as Carlos Enrique (spelling unclear), and said he was a former journalist for the Boston Herald (the Herald says he's not, according to OPB, which isn't much of a surprise). He described being new to town, and struck by the abuse that city council members face. 
 
 "I'm very surprised how there's so many people who show up to city council and just kind of like get angry at you and yell at you and stuff like that," he said. "It made me kind of wonder how could someone just endure people coming and berating you every week.... What I realized is that the language of resistance has not been properly translated to you. So this is for you." 
 
 In a tense moment, Enrique got up, approached Wheeler, reached into his black jacket, and pulled out a Pepsi. Council members appeared thoroughly freaked out—even after the joke became apparent. 
 
 "Whoa whoa whoa, not a good move," said Wheeler, who eventually laughed when he realized what had happened. "Don't do that again. Not a smart move. I do appreciate it but don't do that again. For your own safety don't do that... If this were the Boston City Council that would have ended differently." 
 
 Here's the video. 
 
 Safety and order, of course, have been a theme at City Council of late. Security guards now check people's bags before they come into meetings, and last week Wheeler's office even printed out tickets people were handed to attend. Prior to the Pepsi incident, the meeting had been largely free of disruption (though not without tributes to Quanice Hayes, the 17-year-old killed by Portland police in February). 
 
 There's no way you don't get what Enrique was up to at this point, but just in case, here's yesterday's infamous Pepsi ad, featuring Kendall Jenner spontaneously joining a cheesy fake protest and handing an officer a soda. Wheeler is the city's police commissioner, and has taken the brunt of citizen anger for the Portland Police Bureau's forceful response to protests lately. ||||| Story highlights Man approaches Portland, Oregon, mayor with a Pepsi at a City Council meeting 
 
 Move comes as Pepsi yanks controversial ad featuring Kendall Jenner as protester 
 
 (CNN) Turns out Pepsi isn't a panacea for everything. 
 
 Taking a page out of Kendall Jenner's book, a protester approached the mayor of Portland, Oregon, on Wednesday night, hand in pocket, before eventually pulling out a can of Pepsi. 
 
 The move came the same day that Pepsi pulled a controversial ad in which Jenner ditches a photo shoot to join a street protest and then gives a Pepsi to a police officer. 
 
 "Woah, woah, woah, not a good move, not a good move," Mayor Ted Wheeler said as the man stood up during a City Council meeting and approached the bench where Wheeler and other officials sat. 
 
 The man was quickly approached by security and ushered out of the meeting. 
 
 Read More ||||| A man walked up to Mayor Ted Wheeler and handed him a can of Pepsi at Wednesday's City Council meeting. (Photo: YouTube, KGW) 
 
 PORTLAND, Ore. – In a very topical gesture, a man attending Wednesday’s Portland City Council meeting approached the commissioners and handed Mayor Ted Wheeler a Pepsi. 
 
 It didn’t end like the commercial. Watch the video (starts at the 2:51 mark) 
 
 The man identified himself as Carlos Enrique, a former journalist for the Boston Herald. He said he had just recently moved to Portland and was surprised at the number of angry people at Portland City Council meetings. 
 
 In recent months, several city council meetings were delayed or shut down by protesters. Some commissioners voiced concerns about safety. 
 
 “It made me kind of wonder, how could someone just endure people coming and berating you every week?” He said to Mayor Wheeler. “The language of the resistance has not been properly translated to you. So this is for you.” 
 
 That’s when Enrique stood up, walked up to the commissioners, reached into his pocket, and handed Wheeler a can of Pepsi. The man was quickly escorted away. 
 
 “Not a smart move. Thank you. I do appreciate it, but don’t do that again,” Wheeler said, chuckling. "If this were the Boston City Council that would have ended differently." 
 
 The gifted can of soda was a reference to the same gesture at the end of a universally panned Pepsi ad released by the soda giant Tuesday. 
 
 The ad stars model Kendall Jenner and shows her leaving a photo shoot to join a protest march, where she gives a police officer a Pepsi and seemingly creates a truce between protesters and police. Critics the world over said the ad was extremely insensitive and tone-deaf. 
 
 Pepsi apologized Wednesday and announced it was pulling the ad after widespread criticism. 
 
 © 2017 KGW-TV ||||| The interactive transcript could not be loaded. 
 
 Rating is available when the video has been rented. 
 
 This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.