Source: Multi-News

A young woman was walking with her father in a Brooklyn playground on Thursday night when five men approached them, pulled out a gun, ordered her father to leave and then took turns raping her, the police said on Saturday. 
 
 The woman, 18, was with her father inside the Osborn Playground in Brownsville, near the intersection of Lott Avenue and Osborn Street, when five men approached them, the police said. One of the men, who was armed, pointed a gun at them and ordered her father to leave. 
 
 The authorities said the father left the woman with the group of men, who then each raped her at gunpoint. The men fled the scene when her father returned a short time later with two uniformed police officers, the police said. 
 
 The playground provides turquoise and red climbing equipment for young neighborhood children. On school days, middle school students from the neighboring Knowledge and Power Preparatory Academy V play on the playground’s handball and basketball courts. 
 
 The Police Department released surveillance video that it said showed the men in a bodega before the suspected rape. The video shows a group of young black men in hooded sweatshirts and light jackets laughing and smiling. One wore a red backpack. 
 
 The police have asked for the public’s assistance in identifying and locating the men. The woman was taken to Kings County Hospital Center, where she was treated and released, the police said. Her name has not been released. ||||| These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.The goal is to fix all broken links on the web . Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites. ||||| NEW YORK (Reuters) - New York Mayor Bill de Blasio on Sunday denounced the rape of a woman by five men at a Brooklyn playground, pledging police would work to swiftly apprehend the suspects in “this vicious crime.” 
 
 Police said on Saturday the men took turns raping the 18-year-old woman at the playground operated by the New York City Parks Department in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn just after 9 p.m. on Thursday. One man pointed a gun at the father and told him to leave, police said. 
 
 After the father left, the men each assaulted the woman, police said. They fled when her father returned a short while later, accompanied by two officers. 
 
 The woman was treated at a hospital and released, police said. 
 
 Police released surveillance video taken in a nearby bodega that they said showed the five suspects before the attack. The video depicts a group of black men in jackets and sweatshirts talking and laughing inside the store. 
 
 Police asked for the public’s help in identifying the suspects. 
 
 “We will take every step possible to find and swiftly prosecute the assailants of this vicious crime,” de Blasio said in a statement. “Every New Yorker in every neighborhood deserves to feel safe and protected, and we will not stop until the perpetrators of this disturbing attack are held accountable for their actions.” 
 
 De Blasio and his police commissioner, Bill Bratton, have faced criticism over the perception that major crime is rising in America’s most populous city. 
 
 Major crimes reported dropped 1.7 percent last year and by 5.8 percent since de Blasio took office two years ago. But some categories have increased, according to a report issued earlier this month. Rapes were up 6.3 percent last year.