Source: Multi-News

The full moon known as this year's Harvest Moon will rise tonight (Sept.16) and will be shaded by a subtle type of lunar eclipse for some skywatchers in Africa, Asia and Australia. 
 
 The Harvest Moon (as with all full moons) officially turns full when it reaches the spot in the sky opposite to (180 degrees from) the sun. In 2016, the Harvest Moon's moment will occur tonight at 3:05 p.m. EDT (12:05 p.m. PDT). 
 
 A minor penumbral lunar eclipse will accompany the full moon tonight, and will be visible from Europe, Africa, Asia, Australia and the Western Pacific. The Slooh Community Observatory will offer a live webcast of the eclipse at Slooh.com beginning at 12:45 p.m. EDT (1645 GMT). You can also watch the lunar eclipse webcast on Space.com, courtesy of Slooh. [Harvest Moon Lunar Eclipse Guide: When & How to See It] 
 
 The Harvest Moon is the one that comes the closest to the autumnal equinox, so this year it falls in September, although occasionally this title can be bestowed upon the October full moon. That will happen 12 times from 1970 to 2020, occurring next in 2017. The 2016 version of the Harvest Moon comes six days prior to the autumnal equinox, although it can occur as early as Sept. 8 (as it did in 2014) or as late as Oct. 7 (as happened in 1987). 
 
 Many think that the Harvest Moon remains in the night sky longer than any of the other full moons seen during the year, but that is not so. What sets the Harvest Moon apart from other full moons is that it occurs at the climax of the harvest season, so farmers can work late into the night by the moon's light. This moon rises at about the time the sun sets, and — more importantly — at this time of year, instead of rising its normal average of 50 minutes later each day, the moon seems to rise at somewhat the same time each night. 
 
 This NASA chart prepared by eclipse expert Fred Espenak shows the regions on Earth where the penumbral lunar eclipse of Sept. 16, 2016 will be visible. The primary visibility areas include Europe, Africa, Asia, Australia and the Western Pacific. Credit: NASA/Fred Espenak 
 
 In actuality, from midnorthern latitudes (+40 degrees), the rising of the moon over a three-night span centered on full phase (Sept. 15, 16 and 17) comes, on average, 38 minutes later each night. The night-to-night difference is greatest for the more southerly locations (Miami, located at latitude +25.8 degrees, sees moonrise come an average of 45 minutes later). Meanwhile, the difference is less at more northerly locations (at Edmonton, Canada, located at latitude 53.5 degrees N, the average difference is only 28 minutes). [Harvest Moon 2016: When and How to See September's Full Moon] 
 
 The reason for this seasonal circumstance is that the moon appears to move along the ecliptic, and at this time of year, when rising, the ecliptic makes its smallest angle with respect to the horizon for those living in the Northern Hemisphere. 
 
 In contrast, for those living in the Southern Hemisphere, the ecliptic at this time of year appears to stand almost perpendicular (at nearly a right angle) to the eastern horizon. As such, the difference for the time of moonrise exceeds the average of 50 minutes per night. At Sydney, Australia (latitude -33.9), for instance, the night-to-night difference amounts to 67 minutes. 
 
 Interestingly, for those who live near 70 degrees north latitude, the moon does indeed appear to rise at about the same time each night around the period of the Harvest Moon. And for those who live even farther to the north, a paradox occurs: The moon appears to rise earlier each night! At Barrow, Alaska (latitude +71.3 degrees), for instance, the times of moonrise on Sept. 15, 16 and 17 will be, respectively, 9:05 p.m., 9:02 p.m. and 8:59 p.m. Alaska Daylight Time. So from Barrow, Alaska, the moon will seem to rise an average of 3 minutes earlier each night! 
 
 The Harvest Moon will also undergo an eclipse of sorts, although this event will not afford viewers much of a spectacle. It's a "penumbral" eclipse, which occurs when the moon passes through the outer fringe of the Earth's shadow. Unlike when the moon interacts with the dark umbral shadow of Earth, resulting in a noticeable "bite" out of the lunar disk, a penumbral eclipse at best causes a tarnishing or "smudginess" on the moon at maximum effect. 
 
 This full chart of the Sept. 16, 2016 lunar eclipse, prepared by NASA eclipse expert Fred Espenak, shows both the visibility regions for the eclipses, as well as how the moon will dip through the outer shadow of Earth. Credit: NASA/Fred Espenak 
 
 Unfortunately, North America is not in the viewing zone. Eastern Africa, western and central Asia, and western and central Australia are in the best positions to see this eclipse. At maximum (2:54 p.m. EDT, or 1854 GMT), 93 percent of the moon's diameter will be immersed in the Earth's penumbral shadow; the upper part of the moon will appear noticeably shaded. 
 
 So for all of you (including me) who live in North America, don't be dejected that you're missing out on this shady little drama. 
 
 It's really an underwhelming event. 
 
 Editor's note: If you see an amazing Harvest Moon or live in one of the visilibility regions for the penumbral lunar eclipse and capture a striking photo that you'd like to share with Space.com and our news partners for a story or gallery, let us know! You can send images and comments in to: spacephotos@space.com. 
 
 Joe Rao serves as an instructor and guest lecturer at New York's Hayden Planetarium. He writes about astronomy for Natural History magazine, the Farmer's Almanac and other publications, and he is also an on-camera meteorologist for News 12 Westchester, New York. Follow us @Spacedotcom, Facebook and Google+. Original article on Space.com. ||||| View Images A plane crosses the 2014 harvest moon, as seen from Fukuoka, Japan. 
 
 Photograph by The Asahi Shimbun, Getty Images 
 
 Gaze at the harvest moon on September 16, and you may notice the normally bright lunar orb start to darken. Don’t panic—the ominous sight is a perfectly normal penumbral eclipse. 
 
 This month’s full moon has been dubbed the harvest moon because it is the closest one to the autumn equinox in the Northern Hemisphere. Rising about half an hour later each night, the added light from the full moon’s shine is said to have given farmers more time to harvest their crops. 
 
 Last year, the harvest moon was also a supermoon—when our natural satellite made its closest approach to Earth—and it was turned a spectacular ruddy hue by a total lunar eclipse. This year, Earth’s shadow will again darken the moon, but in a more ethereal event known as a penumbral eclipse. 
 
 What Causes a Super Harvest Blood Moon? On September 27, 2015, a rare super blood moon was visible in the Americas, Europe, and Africa. The unique lunar phenomenon happens when a set of three events converge at the right time. Find out what happened. 
 
 A total eclipse of the moon is highly dramatic affair, since the moon turns dark red as it glides through the deep inner shadow cone, or umbra, of Earth. 
 
 Because the sun is a large disk rather than a single point of light, our planet’s shadow also has a lighter outer cone, or prenumbra, that can also envelop the moon. When this penumbral eclipse happens, it creates a subtle shading of the lunar disk. 
 
 The best views of this week’s harvest eclipse should be across Europe, Africa, Asia, Australia, and the western Pacific Basin. The deepest and darkest phase of the eclipse will come at 2:54 p.m. ET (18:54 GMT). For detailed charts and times in your location, visit EclipseWise.com. 
 
 Because the darkening will be so slight, the best bet for viewers will be to use binoculars or telescopes to catch the creep of Earth’s shadow as it blankets the moon’s usual glare. Expect to see the darkening effect start over the northern portion of the moon’s limb and envelope about 91 percent of its disk during its maximum phase. 
 
 While not as flashy as a super blood moon eclipse, you should be sure to enjoy this week’s lunar show—it’s the last harvest moon eclipse of any kind that we’ll see until 2024. 
 
 The next big lunar event for the Eastern Hemisphere will be January 31, 2018, when there will be a total eclipse of the moon. 
 
 Also This Week 
 
 Neptune and Moon. After darkness falls on September 15, look for the moon to guide binocular viewers to the planet Neptune. 
 
 The two worlds will appear to be only three degrees apart, a separation that’s equal to six full moon disks side by side. But don’t be fooled by their celestial coziness. While the moon is about 240,000 miles from us, on average, Neptune is the most distant planet from the sun at about 2.7 billion miles away. 
 
 Shining at a feeble magnitude 7.8, the ice giant is invisible to the naked eye, but it can be glimpsed with binoculars as a very faint bluish disk among a backdrop of white pinpoint stars. 
 
 Venus Meets Spica. Here’s an observing challenge for skywatchers in tropical latitudes: After sunset on September 17 and 18, look for the bright planet Venus to pair up with Spica, the lead star of the constellation Virgo. The celestial pair will only be 2.5 degrees apart, or equal to the width of five full moon disks. 
 
 What will make this a bit tricky for viewers is that this conjunction will happen less than 10 degrees above the southwestern horizon. This will make the viewing time critical, as the duo will follow the sun quickly and sink below the horizon within 45 minutes of local sunset. Binoculars will also help keep the pair in easy view. 
 
 Clear skies!