Source: Multi-News

Image copyright PA Image caption Mr Trump's interview comes as protesters - both anti and pro-Trump - prepare to march on Friday 
 
 Theresa May and Donald Trump are holding talks at her country retreat Chequers, following his controversial comments on the PM's Brexit plan. 
 
 In an interview with the Sun, Mr Trump said the PM's plan would "probably kill" any trade deal with the US. 
 
 But on Friday, he said he and Mrs May had "probably never developed a better relationship" than during this trip - his first to the UK as president. 
 
 Meanwhile, a giant blimp of Mr Trump as a baby is floating in central London. 
 
 It is part of a demonstration in Parliament Square, one of many due to take place across the UK on Friday. 
 
 In his interview with the Sun, Mr Trump also said that former Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson - who disagrees with the PM on Brexit and resigned this week - would make a "great prime minister", adding "I think he's got what it takes". 
 
 He also renewed his criticism of London Mayor Sadiq Khan over last year's terror attacks in London, saying he had done "a terrible job". 
 
 Downing Street has not yet reacted to Mr Trump's remarks, but Chancellor Philip Hammond said the talks will be "very positive". 
 
 Theresa May has been making the case for a US free trade deal, and says Brexit is an "unprecedented opportunity" to create jobs in the UK and US. 
 
 The US president and his wife, Melania, were given a red carpet reception at Blenheim Palace, Oxfordshire on Thursday evening. 
 
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Mays greet Trumps for UK black-tie dinner 
 
 They were at a black-tie dinner with Mrs May as news broke of his interview with the newspaper, which said it was conducted while he was in Brussels. 
 
 After it was published, White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said the president "likes and respects Prime Minister May very much", adding that he had "never said anything bad about her". 
 
 Image copyright Reuters Image caption Protesters near Blenheim Palace making their feelings known on Thursday 
 
 Mr Trump - who has been a long-time supporter of Brexit - told The Sun that the UK's blueprint for its post-Brexit relations with the EU was "a much different deal than the people voted on". 
 
 He said the Brexit proposals Mrs May and her cabinet thrashed out at the PM's country house Chequers last week "would probably end a major trade relationship with the United States." 
 
 "We have enough difficulty with the European Union," he said, saying the EU has "not treated the United States fairly on trading". 
 
 'I told May how to do it' 
 
 He also said Mrs May had not listened to his advice on how to do a Brexit deal, saying: "I would have done it much differently. 
 
 "I actually told Theresa May how to do it but she didn't agree, she didn't listen to me. She wanted to go a different route," he said. 
 
 Tom Newton Dunn, the Sun journalist who interviewed Mr Trump, said the US president seemed "sensitive" and knew about the "Trump baby" inflatable. 
 
 "He's really quite stung by the criticism he's been getting," said Mr Newton Dunn. "He knew all about the baby blimp. I think it hurt him." 
 
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The Sun journalist who interviewed Donald Trump says the president "really cares" what people in Britain think of him. 
 
 The BBC's political editor, Laura Kuenssberg, said Mr Trump's interview had "driven a bulldozer" through Mrs May's claim that the UK would be able to get decent trade deals with the wider world, while sticking to the EU rules. 
 
 But Foreign Office minister Sir Alan Duncan said things had "moved on" since Mr Trump's interview - which was carried out before he arrived in the UK - and the mood at Thursday night's dinner was "fantastically positive and did focus a lot on trade". 
 
 The government does not see Mr Trump's behaviour as "rude", said Sir Alan, adding: "Donald Trump is a controversialist. That's his style." 
 
 Mayor of London Sadiq Khan defended his decision to allow the giant Trump baby inflatable to fly over London, saying: "The idea that we limit the right to protest because it might cause offence to a foreign leader is a slippery slope." 
 
 And, responding to Mr Trump's criticism of his response to terrorism, Mr Khan said it was "interesting" that he "is not criticising the mayors of other cities" which have also experienced terror attacks. 
 
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Sadiq Khan, Mayor of London: "It's not for me to be the censor" 
 
 Meanwhile, Shadow Foreign Secretary Emily Thornberry said the PM "should be standing up to [Mr Trump]" after he "slagged her off", instead of holding his hand. 
 
 Image copyright EPA Image caption Mr Trump briefly held Mrs May's hand as they went up the stairs 
 
 Mr Trump's comments came on the same day the UK government published its proposal for its long-term relationship with the EU. 
 
 The plan is aimed at ensuring trade co-operation, with no hard border for Northern Ireland, and global trade deals for the UK. Mrs May said the plan "absolutely delivers on the Brexit we voted for". 
 
 But after ministers reached an agreement on the plan at Chequers a week ago, leading Brexiteers Boris Johnson and David Davis resigned from the cabinet. 
 
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Some of Mr Trump's supporters and protesters have been explaining their motivation 
 
 Mrs May and Mr Trump are watching a joint counter-terrorism exercise by British and US special forces at a military base. 
 
 The pair will then travel to Chequers - the PM's country residence in Buckinghamshire - for talks also being attended by Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt. 
 
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Seven things President Trump could learn from the Queen 
 
 Extra security is in place to police protests planned for the second day of Mr Trump's visit. 
 
 The president and first lady will travel to Windsor on Friday afternoon to meet the Queen, before flying to Scotland to spend the weekend at Mr Trump's Turnberry golf resort. This part of the visit is being considered private. ||||| A helicopter leaves the grounds of the US ambassador residence in Regent's Park, London, while demonstrators protest against the visit of US President Donald Trump Thursday July 12, 2018. (Gareth Fuller/PA... (Associated Press) 
 
 A helicopter leaves the grounds of the US ambassador residence in Regent's Park, London, while demonstrators protest against the visit of US President Donald Trump Thursday July 12, 2018. (Gareth Fuller/PA via AP) (Associated Press) 
 
 LONDON (AP) — The Latest on protests in Britain against U.S. President Donald Trump's visit (all times local): 
 
 11:20 a.m. 
 
 Hundreds of people in London have crowded under a balloon depicting Donald Trump as a screaming baby as protests across the U.K. accompanying the U.S. president's arrival got underway. 
 
 Some 16 balloon minders in yellow vests identifying themselves as "babysitters" minded lead lines to the 6-meter (20-foot) inflatable as the curious gawked and took pictures. 
 
 Dominique Blum, 31, and Mia Parker, 50, from Pensacola Florida, were overjoyed with the spectacle. 
 
 Parker says she hopes the protest will encourage more people to get creative and organized in protesting Trump's policies. She says "it's brilliant. I just want to party with these people forever." 
 
 ___ 
 
 9:30 a.m. 
 
 Demonstrators plan to mock U.S. President Donald Trump with a giant balloon depicting him as a screaming orange baby as tens of thousands march through the streets of London to protest the American leader's visit to the U.K. 
 
 The diaper-clad balloon infant, with a quiff of hair and a mobile phone for tweeting, is to soar Friday over the Houses of Parliament in London. It's the centerpiece of demonstrations across the country protesting Trump's policies on issues ranging from immigration and race relations to women and climate change. 
 
 Kevin Smith, one of the 16 people behind the balloon, says "this is what people need to be doing — to come together in their communities to organize and work out how to stand against right wing populism and xenophobia that we're seeing not just in the U.S. but in Europe." 
 
 Protest organizers say they plan to stage demonstrations in some 50 cities around the U.K. 
 
 ___ 
 
 9 a.m. 
 
 President Donald Trump's visit to Britain is one of the biggest operations for police in recent years, requiring similar resources to the 2014 NATO summit in Wales. 
 
 Protests are planned Friday in some 50 U.K. cities. In London, a screaming orange baby balloon will be featured in the anti-Trump protest. 
 
 The 20-foot (6-meter) tall balloon's creators, who call themselves babysitters, admit they borrowed the idea from comedian Jon Stewart, who in 2016 called Trump a "man-baby." A crowd-funding campaign raised 20,000 pounds ($26,400) to make it a reality. 
 
 Matthew Bonner, one of the organizers, says "depicting Trump as a baby is a great way of targeting his fragile ego, and mocking him is our main motivation." 
 
 He says Trump "doesn't seem to be affected by the moral outrage that comes from his behavior and his policies. You can't reason with him but you can ridicule him." ||||| Sadiq Khan has hit back at “preposterous” claims by Donald Trump after the US president criticised the London mayor for doing a “a bad job” on terrorism and crime in the capital. 
 
 In an interview in the Sun, Trump lashed out at Khan, who has allowed a Trump protest balloon to float above Westminster during his visit. 
 
 The US president reignited his feud with Khan, who criticised the US president as “ill-informed” over a tweet following the London Bridge attack in June 2017. 
 
 Trump protests: baby blimp takes off as Foreign Office hits back over trade threat – live updates Read more 
 
 “I think allowing millions and millions of people to come into Europe is very, very sad ... You have a mayor who has done a terrible job in London,” Trump said. 
 
 “He has done a terrible job. Take a look at the terrorism that is taking place. Look at what is going on in London. I think he has done a very bad job on terrorism. 
 
 “I think he has done a bad job on crime, if you look, all of the horrible things going on there, with all of the crime that is being brought in.” 
 
 Khan responded on Friday morning, saying terrorism was a global problem, with people dying all over Europe. “What is interesting is Trump is not criticising mayors of those cities, but he is criticising me,” he said in an interview on the BBC’s Today programme. 
 
 Trump’s comments blaming immigration for crime in England were “preposterous”, he added. 
 
 “There has been an increase in violent crime across England and Wales … it’s gone up by more than 20% … and by 4% in London ... We must deal with the causes, but also enforcement and where we have lost £7m in our budget in London I have invested £4m ... [but] the idea to blame immigration from Africa is preposterous, and we should call him out when does,” Khan said. 
 
 Play Video 0:46 The moment Trump baby blimp lifts off - video 
 
 Trump’s verbal attack on Khan came after the London mayor refused to block a plan to fly a giant inflatable “Trump baby” near parliament to coincide with the president’s visit to the UK. The 20ft-high blimp depicts the US leader as an angry infant wearing a nappy and clutching a mobile phone. 
 
 Khan defended the decision, saying to have blocked the inflatable would have been to inhibit freedom of speech. 
 
 “The UK, like the USA, has a long and rich history of rights and the freedom to protest and freedom of speech. The US ambassador himself commented that one thing [the] USA and the UK have in common is freedom of speech, and the idea of restricting that and [the] right to assemble because someone is offended by something is [a] slippery slope,” he said. 
 
 “When determining these things [it should be about] ... whether it is safe and peaceful. As a politician I should not be the arbiter of what is good or bad taste.” 
 
 Khan said there would be far-right and pro-Trump demonstrations taking place on Saturday. “I disagree with their views as well, but letting them protest should not mean endorsing their views ... I am not banning the pro-Trump demo either,” he added.