Source: Multi-News

A 16-year-old has made £48,000 from a website she made to give Chinese babies English names. 
 
 Beau Jessup, a British A-level student from Gloucestershire, came up with the idea after a family visit to China. 
 
 They were out for a meal with friends when she was asked to give an English name to a newborn baby. 
 
 In China it is considered important to have an English name for future study or business with the UK. 
 
 'Special Name' requires the user to pick five of the 12 personality traits they hope their baby will grow into 
 
 In China they name their child based on the elements and Beau wanted a similarity between how they pick their Chinese name and how they pick their English name. 
 
 And she does this by assigning personality traits to each English name. 
 
 They also select the gender of the baby and pay the equivalent of 60p. 
 
 The three chosen names are then shared with family and friends on We-Chat, China's WhatsApp equivalent, to help make the final decision. 
 
 Each suggestion is printed on a certificate with its meaning and an example of a famous person with that name. 
 
 Beau says that when she was first asked to name her father's friend's baby, she was surprised. 
 
 "I'm not really qualified or relevant enough in that baby's life to be the person to give it a name." 
 
 But after hearing of some of the "embarrassing" names, Beau decided she needed to act. 
 
 There was someone called Rolex 
 
 "There are quite a few examples where people have gotten the names wrong." 
 
 Beau explains that the Chinese are fascinated by western culture but their access to it is restricted by the government in China. 
 
 There isn't open access to the internet so they can't use standard baby naming websites that people may use in the UK. 
 
 "Being exposed to luxury items and things like Harry Potter, Disney films and Lord of the Rings means they use those for reference. 
 
 "I once heard of someone called Gandalf and another called Cinderella." 
 
 Amelia and Oliver were the most popular baby names in England and Wales in 2015 
 
 That's according to the Office for National Statistics which released the complete set of data last week. 
 
 But Beau doesn't know which names are the most popular on her website, and she's "happy about that". 
 
 "It is called 'special name' and it's based on individual preference and what they personally want their child to be." 
 
 Beau says it's quite strange to know she's named more than 200,000 babies 
 
 "It's nice to be a part of such a happy experience and be a part of those young stages in a baby's life." 
 
 The site's success has been a pleasant surprise. 
 
 "I wanted to do it just to see if an idea could turn into more than just simply an idea. 
 
 "And I never expected it to become more than just a small project because I never really considered myself very academic. 
 
 "It is obviously a nice surprise, but it is definitely a surprise." 
 
 The website doesn't make a feature of Beau's age. 
 
 In fact it shows an older woman in the "about us" section. 
 
 "It is a photo of a lady from [stock photo site] Stockshare which I purchased as I wanted people to take the service seriously - and I was aware they may not take it seriously if they knew my age," she explains. 
 
 Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat ||||| A growing number of Chinese parents have taken to choosing an English name for their offspring in the hope of helping them gain a future foothold in Britain and the West. 
 
 Unfortunately that has led to mixed results, with some Chinese children now blessed with names such as Cinderella, Gandalf and even Rolex. 
 
 Step forward Beau Jessup - a 16-year-old schoolgirl who has earned more than £48,000 offering advice to Chinese families on how to choose rather more suitable English names. 
 
 Beau, a pupil at Cheltenham Ladies College, hit on the idea during a family visit to China, when she was asked by friends during a meal out to suggest an English name for their newborn baby. ||||| A British school girl has amassed a small fortune after building a website to help Chinese parents choose English names for their children. 
 
 Beau Jessup, a 16-year-old A-level student from Gloucestershire, came up with the idea during a trip to China during which she was asked to help choose a name by friends expecting a child. 
 
 After initially believing herself unqualified to choose names for babies, she discovered the surge in demand for English names for Chinese children over the last 20 years has resulted in some fairly avant-garde names for children whose parents have not been fully aware of the cultural significance of the monikers they have chosen. 
 
 These include children named Gandalf, Cinderalla and Rolex. 
 
 In addition to traditional Chinese names, it is seen as important for Chinese children to be given English names to use for emails, and for future study or business with Britain. 
 
 In response, Ms Jessup, who attends Cheltenham Ladies College, founded SpecialName.cn, a website which helps parents to choose appropriate names for their child based on various positive personality traits. 
 
 Most popular UK baby names of 2015 
 
 After choosing their child’s gender, the site invites parents to select five traits to best describe their aspirations for their child and then suggests a shortlist of three names. 
 
 The list is presented along with the names’ meanings and a famous person with the same name. 
 
 Users are charged around 60p to use the service, and the site has racked up 27,000 visitors a month with a total of 221,000 parents using the service since it launched. 
 
 This has seen the site take around £16,000 in sales each month which has netted Ms Jessup £48,000 so far. 
 
 She said: “I have a target to reach which will allow me to pay for my University fees and writing the text for the site was really good practice for my Mandarin GCSE. 
 
 “I spend two hours a day talking to my customers asking how I can make the service better and about an hour making improvements.” 
 
 Baby names 'at risk of dying out' in 2016 - In pictures 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 show all Baby names 'at risk of dying out' in 2016 - In pictures 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1/10 1) Angela Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor Axel Schmidt/Getty Images 
 
 2/10 2) Beverley Actress and singer Beverly Knight Tim P. Whitby/Getty Images 
 
 3/10 3) Carol Former 'Countdown' presenter Carol Vorderman Gareth Cattermole/Getty Images 
 
 4/10 4) Debra Former 'Will & Grace' actress Debra Messing Jason Merritt/Getty Images 
 
 5/10 5) Diane Fashion designer and inventor of the wrap dress Diane Von Furstenberg Michael Buckner/Getty Images for Diane Von Furstenberg 
 
 6/10 1) Bertrand The late philosopher Bertrand Russell Hulton Archive/Getty Images 
 
 7/10 2) Cecil The late artist Cecil Beaton Hulton Archive/Getty Images 
 
 8/10 3) Clarence American actor Henry Fonda pictured in 1975 rehearsing at the Piccadilly Theatre in London for his one man play about the famous trial lawyer Clarence Darrow Getty Images 
 
 9/10 4) Clive Actor Clive Owen Andrew H. Walker/Getty Images 
 
 10/10 5) Cyril Cyril Rioli, an Australian rules footballer Matt King/Getty Images 
 
 She added: “Since parents love sharing photos of their babies, I have recently added a gallery, so I’m gradually building a SpecialName community.”