Source: Multi-News

HARTFORD — The first round of state testing into failing home foundations in northern and eastern Connecticut has concluded that the presence of a certain mineral in the concrete aggregate is at least partly to blame. 
 
 "Although [the] investigation will continue into the fall, we believe there is now sufficient evidence to conclude that significant levels of the mineral pyrrhotite in stone aggregate used in the production of concrete is a substantial contributing factor to the crumbling foundations," state Attorney General George Jepsen said in a written statement. The early finding was announced Monday afternoon in a news release from Jepsen and the state Department of Consumer Protection. 
 
 In addition, the agencies said they reached an agreement with J.J. Mottes Co. of Stafford Springs to discontinue using or selling aggregate from Becker's Quarry in Willington for residential foundations until June 30, 2017. The agreement also applies to Becker's Construction, another business in the family. Mottes' concrete has been cited in lawsuits filed by homeowners with faulty foundations. The agreement does not apply to commercial foundations. 
 
 "Because the aggregate produced by Becker's Quarry and the concrete made from it may contain pyrrhotite in significant levels, caution dictates that concrete products and ingredients from these companies be removed from the residential construction market until our investigation is complete," Jepsen said. 
 
 DCP Commissioner Jonathan A. Harris said pyrrhotite is a "common denominator" in their investigation. Pyrrhotite is a naturally occurring iron sulfide mineral that reacts with oxygen and deteriorates over time. 
 
 The mineral was also cited in a widespread problem in Quebec as the mineral that produces cracks in concrete. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau told The Canadian Press that "the mineral destroys foundations and causes serious problems in the structures of houses." 
 
 The state said that it would continue searching for other factors that might have contributed to the foundation problems and that no finding of legal violations had been made to this point. 
 
 "We have the responsibility to determine whether there is a responsibility by any party under the Unfair Trade Practices Act … we'll be looking at potential solutions that can be used by the policymakers to determine what options homeowners might have," Harris said. 
 
 Stone aggregate is crushed stone, sand and/or gravel that when mixed with cement, water and occasionally other additives, makes concrete. 
 
 John Patton, Mottes company spokesman, said Monday that the agreement to temporarily stop using Becker's Quarry was "a good-faith measure and with the goal of finding answers homeowners deserve." 
 
 "We continue to believe this is an issue of improper installation and not materials — findings which were proven in our only Connecticut court case involving a failed foundation … and we have always cooperated with the state and will continue to do so in the hope of finding sustainable and meaningful solutions for the homeowners and future homeowners," Patton said in a written statement. 
 
 Harris said the suspension of activity at the Mottes and Becker businesses will give the state time to find solutions for homeowners and conclude the investigation. 
 
 "It covers this construction season and a good chunk of the next construction season, and it also allows the long legislative session to occur that could be needed to legislate, change the laws and find solutions," Harris said. "We'll develop a menu of options that homeowners can utilize to try and solve their problem, to cover as many cents on the dollar as possible." 
 
 On April 26, Mottes announced it was leasing its equipment to Farmington Ready Mix LLC for the 2016 building season because adverse publicity made in financially difficult for the company to continue operations. 
 
 Last July, Gov. Dannel P. Malloy assembled a task force of employees from the Department of Consumer Protection and attorney general's office to investigate the problem and find solutions for homeowners. Since then, 220 complaints have been filed by homeowners claiming their foundations are failing due to faulty concrete. 
 
 Tim Heim, one of the homeowners with a failing foundation and president of the Connecticut Coalition for Crumbling Basements, said he is satisfied with the first round of results. 
 
 "I'm pleased that the state of Connecticut's preliminary results confirmed what everyone has suspected along," Heim said. "The state of Connecticut Department of Consumer Protection and attorney general's office ignored and dropped the ball 16 years ago when many reported cases were brought to their attention. I feel bad for the families who had their home built last year and used this same concrete." 
 
 While the results provide some comfort, Heim said, he is still looking for the state to provide financial restitution. 
 
 "The state of Connecticut had had 10 months to find us victims a financial resolution," Heim said. "Once again, the state of Connecticut continues to fail to protect the victims." 
 
 Government officials, from U.S. Sen. Richard Blumenthal to Congressman Joseph Courtney to Malloy, have told homeowners that before financial solutions can be secured the state needs to know the scope of the problem. 
 
 "I thank them for their patience so far," Harris said of the homeowners, "but between the information we've put out so far, the bill that passed and this agreement … I hope people see that we've been making progress and we'll continue to do so." ||||| Ed. Note: The original version of this story incorrectly referred to John Patton as the president of the J.J. Mottes company. He is, in fact, a spokesperson. 
 
 Basement walls are crumbling across a section of eastern Connecticut and few seem to know why. 
 
 The issue has plagued some homeowners for nearly 20 years. 
 
 According to contractors and building officials from South Windsor to Willington, the only fix is for the foundation walls to be removed and re-poured. In each known case, insurance companies immediately deny the coverage claim. 
 
 Donald Childree, a general contractor from South Windsor, says he’s been in up to 75 different homes with the issue. He says it begins with hairline horizontal cracks, often more than 15 years after the foundation is originally placed. In time, map cracking develops, with some cracks big enough to fit a hand in. 
 
 "You’re looking at a minimum of $125,000 upwards to $200-250,000," Childree said, of the cost to replace the foundations. "Insurance companies absolutely will not cover anything." 
 
 Dozens of affected homeowners, contractors and building officials claim all of the failed foundations were poured between the early 1980s through 1998 by J.J. Mottes Company, a concrete and septic supplier out of Stafford Springs. 
 
 Dean Soucy is a general contractor out of Tolland. He says he’s received a "call or two per week" over the last several years from homeowners with the same issue. 
 
 He says each foundation he’s seen with the similar, distinct cracking was poured by J.J. Mottes Company in the '80s or '90s. 
 
 "This is like an epidemic as far as the housing industry is concerned," said Soucy, as he brought the NBC Connecticut Troubleshooters through the basement of an affected home in Ellington. 
 
 Joseph Callahan, chief building official in Coventry, says all of the issues he’s seen in his 26 years of working in Coventry and Manchester were from J.J. Mottes concrete. 
 
 "I’ve never encountered anybody who had a foundation failure with anyone else’s concrete," said Callahan. 
 
 Towns don’t require permits for concrete foundations, but dozens of affected homeowners say it was J.J. Mottes Company who poured their concrete. 
 
 According to its website, J.J. Mottes Company was created in 1947. 
 
 In a statement, J.J. Mottes Company spokesperson John Patton did not comment on any issues prior to 1998, the year he purchased the company from in-laws. 
 
 His statement reads: 
 
 "The current ownership of the Joseph J. Mottes Company has been in place for 15 years. During this time, it has produced ready mix concrete for approximately 10,000 different residential, commercial, municipal and state jobs. We are aware of no project, not one, that has had the recently discovered phenomenon of pyrrhotite reaction and we have not been notified by either state regulators or industry sources of this alleged problem. 
 
 "We produce our concrete using sand, water, granite stone, Type I/II cement and standard industrial admixtures and use the exact same materials for our residential, commercial, and government work - the latter two of which are rigorously tested and inspected prior to and during installation. We have and continue to meet all of the standards of our industry and the regulations of the State of Connecticut. 
 
 "There are many factors that go into producing a good concrete product. Quality concrete mix handled improperly in the installation process or installed in unfavorable site conditions can result in a poor quality foundation. 
 
 "We have begun working with our managers, geologists and testing labs to review our manufacturing methods and materials to eliminate even the slightest possibility of this problem occurring with our Ready-Mix concrete. We are confident that the products we are producing today will continue to meet the needs of the surrounding region." 
 
 The statement does not address the alleged issues of foundations poured from the early 1980s to 1998, and contractors say the issues often take longer than 15 years for the concrete to show signs of failure. 
 
 What’s causing the issue has mystified homeowners, contractors and the state for close to 20 years, but Donald Childree believes he has the answer. He says an iron sulfide mineral called pyrrhotite is to blame. 
 
 Research suggests the effects of pyrrhotite in stone used as concrete aggregate could be catastrophic. Over time, water and air oxidize the pyrrhotite, creating a chemical reaction. This causes the concrete to swell and expand, leading to the cracking, and eventually raising the home from the foundation. 
 
 In one region of Quebec, Canada, the government set up an emergency fund to pay for hundreds of homes with crumbling basements affected by pyrrhotite in the concrete. 
 
 pyrrhotite is pretty rare in Connecticut, but according the U.S. Geological Survey, it is found in Willington at Becker’s Quarry. Becker’s Quarry is owned by the family that owns J.J. Mottes Company. The company confirmed the quarry is where J.J. Mottes has obtained stone used in their concrete aggregate for decades. 
 
 Sources confirm pyrrhotite was found in testing on some foundations consisting of J.J. Mottes-poured concrete. Court records reference reports describing an iron sulfide chemical reaction creating the foundation failures. 
 
 We cannot determine whether or not the mineral was present in all the failed basement walls because most were not tested, and settlements of litigation with their insurers prevent homeowners from disclosing the findings. 
 
 Linda Tofolowsky, formerly of Tolland, says she was the first homeowner to notice the intense cracks on her basement walls, a little over 10 years after they moved into a home on Kent Road South in 1985. She says her insurance company denied her claim. Tofolowsky says she tried to seek help from the town and the state, and eventually the courts. 
 
 The Tofolowskys took J.J. Mottes Company to court, alleging claims for product liability. In 2003, the company was found not liable for installing faulty concrete based on strength testing and a finding that the problems with the foundation were caused by the installer rather than a defect in concrete. 
 
 However, we found no record that the concrete from the Tofolowskys' home was tested for pyrrhotite. The court also found the Tofolowskys' claim fell outside the 10-year statute of limitations. 
 
 Walter Zaldwy built his home in 1988 in Willington. He says J.J. Mottes supplied the concrete for his foundation. He never questioned why his insurance company sent him a notice in 2008 stating his foundation would no longer be covered – until he started noticing the spider cracks on his walls growing within the last year. 
 
 "Looking back, I’m wondering, how did they get this information to decide they weren’t covering basement foundations anymore?" Zaldwy said. 
 
 Zaldwy now must decide if he can afford to pay the hefty cost of replacing the foundation or just walk away from his biggest investment. 
 
 "I spent a good part of my life trying to work and to achieve the American dream by owning the home to have it fall out from underneath me," he said. 
 
 There is some hope for homeowners. While still denying claims, insurance companies are starting to settle with some homeowners, but it often only after a long legal battle. 
 
 Ed. Note: As the Troubleshooters have reported on this issue over the past year and a half, the Joseph J. Mottes Company (JJ Mottes) has evolved its response. Click on this link to see the company’s most recent full statement to NBC Connecticut and its response to the State of Connecticut. ||||| 
 
 Warning! 
 
 It seems that JavaScript is not working in your browser. It could be because it is not supported, or that JavaScript is intentionally disabled. Some of the features on CT.gov will not function properly with out javascript enabled.