Source: Multi-News

Image caption Baby Nargis was born on Monday (Photo: Plan International) 
 
 A baby born in India has been declared the world's seven billionth person by child rights group Plan International. 
 
 Baby Nargis was born at 07:25 local time (01:55GMT) in Mall village in India's Uttar Pradesh state. 
 
 Plan International says Nargis has been chosen symbolically as it is not possible to know where exactly the seven billionth baby is born. 
 
 The United Nations estimated that on Monday 31 October, the world's population would reach seven billion. 
 
 However, the UN itself has decided not to identify a specific child as the seven billionth person. 
 
 The UN Secretary General, Ban Ki-moon, told a news conference marking the occasion that the milestone was not about one newborn baby but about the entire "human family". 
 
 He warned of rising public anger in the world's population and a loss of faith in governments and public institutions to do the right thing. 
 
 "Our world is one of terrible contradictions," he said. 
 
 "Plenty of food but one billion people go hungry. Lavish lifestyles for a few but poverty for too many others." 
 
 He said he would take a message to the leaders of the G20 leading economies who are due to meet in Cannes later this week. 
 
 "Think about our children, think about the future with vision and foresight." 
 
 He said he would call for the world's poor not to be forgotten in a time of economic austerity and for women and young people to be given a proper voice in their future. 
 
 In addition to baby Nargis in India, Bangladesh, the Philippines and Cambodia have all identified seven billionth babies. 
 
 'Good luck' 
 
 Every minute, 51 babies are born in India, 11 of them in the most populous state, Uttar Pradesh. 
 
 Nargis was born to Vinita and Ajay Kumar on Monday morning in a small government-run hospital in Mall village, nearly 50km (31 miles) from the state capital, Lucknow, a Plan International official told the BBC. 
 
 The daughter of a poor farmer, Nargis was chosen as the seventh billionth baby to focus attention on the ills of female foeticide and India's skewed sex ratio, the organisation said. 
 
 Hundreds of thousands of female foetuses are aborted in India every year, even though sex-selective terminations and the use of ultrasound technology for foetal sex-determination are illegal there. 
 
 Photos of baby Nargis were shown at a function attended by nearly 250 villagers at the hospital, the BBC's Ram Dutt Tripathi reports from Mall. 
 
 Health officials presented the birth certificate to her father at the event. 
 
 "We were praying all along for a daughter," Ajay Kumar said. "She is Lakshmi [Hindu goddess of wealth], she will bring us good luck," he said. 
 
 A street play staged at the event on the importance of the girl child saw many moist eyes among the audiences, our correspondent says. 
 
 The person chosen by the UN as the world's symbolic six billionth person, Adnan Mevic, is now 12 years old. 
 
 He was photographed in hospital in 1999 with the then UN Secretary General Kofi Annan. 
 
 His family are living in relatively poor conditions in the Bosnian capital, Sarajevo, and have expressed disappointment that since they were visited by Mr Annan, they have heard nothing more from the UN. 
 
 It is thought that this could be one reason why the UN has decided not to name a seven billionth child. ||||| This article is over 7 years old 
 
 Danica May Camacho, a girl born in Philippine capital Manila, is chosen by UN to symbolically mark global population milestone 
 
 The world's seven billionth baby has been born in a packed government-run hospital in the Philippines. 
 
 Weighing 2.5kg (5.5lb), Danica May Camacho was chosen by the United Nations to be one of several children around the world who will symbolically represent the global population milestone. 
 
 She was delivered just before midnight on Sunday amid an explosion of press camera flashes at Manila's Jose Fabella Memorial Hospital. 
 
 "She looks so lovely," her mother, Camille Dalura, whispered softly as she cradled her tiny newborn. 
 
 "I can't believe she is the world's seven billionth." 
 
 Danica's name means morning star. She is a second child for Camille Dalura and Florante Camacho. 
 
 The parents and the baby were met by officials from the UN, which named 31 October Seven Billion Day, aiming to draw attention to the challenges of the world's growing population. 
 
 The accuracy of the projection has been questioned, with some groups arguing that the figure is more likely to be reached next year. 
 
 UN officials nevertheless presented the baby and her parents with a small cake as she lay on her mother's chest wearing a knitted red hat. 
 
 The family also received a scholarship grant for Danica's education from wellwishers and some money to help them open a shop. 
 
 Previous children picked out at birth by the UN to mark world population milestones have complained that the international body forgot about them later in life. 
 
 Both 12-year-old Adnan Nevic of Bosnia Herzogovina, the sixth billionth baby, and Matej Gaspar from Croatia, who was number five billion, have complained that the UN chose them at birth then largely ignored them. 
 
 "We saw Kofi Annan as almost like a godfather to him," Adnan's father, Jasminko, told the Guardian. 
 
 Adnan said: "He held me up when I was two days old but since then we have heard nothing from them." 
 
 The UN Population Fund hopes to raise awareness about reproductive health, women's rights and inequality through the campaign. 
 
 Countries around the world have held celebrations to mark the occasion, including a song contest in Zambia and a concert in Vietnam. 
 
 The Philippines has 94.9 million people, according to a UN report, and 10% of girls aged 15 to 19 have been pregnant. 
 
 Enrique Ona, the country's health secretary, said the birth offered his country an opportunity to address population-related problems.