Source: Multi-News

Add a location to your Tweets 
 
 When you tweet with a location, Twitter stores that location. You can switch location on/off before each Tweet and always have the option to delete your location history. Learn more ||||| One of the most emotional moments of President Obama's farewell address in Chicago Tuesday night was when he turned his attention to the first lady, professing his love and admiration for his wife of 24 years. 
 
 Interested in Michelle Obama? Add Michelle Obama as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Michelle Obama news, video, and analysis from ABC News. Add Interest 
 
 Following his address, the first lady took to Twitter to express a similar sentiment, posting a black-and-white photo of the Obamas with daughters Malia and Sasha waiting for the results of his senate bid on election night 2004. "So proud of @POTUS and all that we've accomplished together," the first lady wrote. "An incredible journey filled with remarkable people. I love you Barack. -mo" 
 
 So proud of @POTUS and all that we've accomplished together. An incredible journey filled with remarkable people. I love you Barack. -mo pic.twitter.com/TFUN3GDLyz — The First Lady (@FLOTUS) January 11, 2017 
 
 Both the president and the first lady were noticeably emotional when the subject came to their relationship. 
 
 "Michelle LaVaughn Robinson, girl of the south side, for the past twenty-five years, you’ve been not only my wife and mother of my children, you have been my best friend," the president said to the first lady, who was seated next to Malia, 18. (A White House official tells ABC News that Sasha remained in Washington because she has an exam at school Wednesday morning). 
 
 The president continued, "You took on a role you didn’t ask for and made it your own with grace and grit and style and good humor. You made the White House a place that belongs to everybody. And a new generation sets its sights higher because it has you as a role model. So you have made me proud. And you have made the country proud." 
 
 POTUS breaks down in tears when talking about FLOTUS: "You've not only been my wife and mother of my children, you've been my best friend." pic.twitter.com/7QCDjPWDFk — ABC News (@ABC) January 11, 2017 
 
 And addressing his daughters, he said, "Malia and Sasha, under the strangest of circumstances, you have become two amazing young women, smart and beautiful, but more importantly, kind and thoughtful and full of passion. You wore the burden of years in the spotlight so easily. Of all that I’ve done in my life, I’m most proud to be your dad." 
 
 Pres. Obama to daughters Malia and Sasha: "Of all that I have done in my life, I’m most proud to be your dad." https://t.co/dS8XgbuhUB pic.twitter.com/nrkqmC8hLz — ABC News (@ABC) January 11, 2017 
 
 ABC News' Jordyn Phelps contributed to this report. ||||| Saltar todo 
 
 Benvido á casa! This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. 
 
 Tweets not working for you? Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. 
 
 Di moito cun pouco When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. 
 
 Únete á conversa Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. 
 
 Learn the latest Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. 
 
 Get more of what you love Sigue máis contas para recibir actualizacións instantáneas dos temas que che importan. 
 
 Find what's happening Mira as últimas conversas sobre calquera tema ao momento.