Source: Multi-News

The parents of 15-year-old Carmen Johnson, who tragically died from electric shock drowning while swimming near her family’s Alabama lake house last April, are speaking out about the rarely reported phenomenon after it took the lives of two more local women this past weekend. 
 
 The two women, 34-year-old Shelly Darling and 41-year-old Elizabeth Whipple, went missing after sunbathing on Lake Tuscaloosa Friday afternoon. Their bodies were retrieved from the lake early Saturday morning. Preliminary autopsies for the two victims show the cause of death as electrocution, the Tuscaloosa County Homicide Unit told CBS affiliate WIAT on Wednesday. 
 
 “I’ve been around water all my life and I never thought that electricity in a huge body of water like that could do what it did,” Carmen’s father, Jimmy Johnson, 49, told CBS News. “It is something that even people like me now after all these years never had any idea that this even happened.” 
 
 Jimmy Johnson 
 
 Every day, about 10 people in the U.S. die from accidental drowning, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. But electric shock drownings are difficult to track. It’s known as a “silent killer.” 
 
 Even a low level of electric current in the water can be extremely hazardous or fatal to a swimmer -- especially in freshwater, where experts say the voltage will “take a shortcut” through the human body. 
 
 “There is no visible warning or way to tell if water surrounding a boat, marina or dock is energized or within seconds will become energized with fatal levels of electricity,” the non-profit Electric Shock Drowning Prevention Association reports. 
 
 In fact, Johnson says, he never would have known what happened to his daughter if he hadn’t felt the electric current himself while trying to jump in to save her. 
 
 Carmen playfully jumped off the top level of the family’s boat dock into Smith Lake with her friend Reagan Gargis on April 16, 2016. Jimmy Johnson lowered a metal ladder into the water so the girls could climb out. Minutes later, he heard Reagan scream, “Help!” 
 
 “My wife thought [Carmen] had done something to her neck, which paralyzed her,” Johnson said. “She started going underwater.” 
 
 That’s when Johnson and his son, Zach, jumped in the water after the girls and immediately felt piercing electric shocks. 
 
 “Cut the power off,” Johnson yelled to his wife as he started to go in and out of consciousness. 
 
 Johnson, Reagan and Zach survived, but Carmen didn’t make it. 
 
 “Carmen was grabbing [Reagan’s] leg and was getting the majority of the shock when I came over,” Johnson said. 
 
 Jimmy Johnson 
 
 Johnson later found a light switch at the dock that was half full of water. When he put the metal ladder into the water, the electrical current from the light switch traveled through the dock to the ladder and into the surrounding water, where the girls were swimming. 
 
 “As they were swimming toward the dock, within somewhere between the 5-to-10-foot range, is when they started feeling like they couldn’t swim,” Johnson recalled. 
 
 Johnson believes that if his family had been educated about electric shock drownings this might never have happened. Now he’s sharing Carmen’s story as a warning to others, along with tips to help prevent similar tragedies from occurring. 
 
 His safety tips include: 
 
 Use a plastic ladder, rather than a metal one, so it won’t help transfer electricity into the water. 
 
 If you start to feel a tingle in the water, swim away from the dock, which is where most electrical issues occur. 
 
 Check all of the wiring around your dock, including your ground fault circuit breaker. 
 
 Purchase a Dock Lifeguard, a device that detects electricity on your dock and in the water around your dock. (Johnson works with the company to promote the product.) 
 
 “It’s every homeowner’s responsibility to make sure water is safe around their dock before they start swimming,” Johnson said. “People think ‘Oh, this is a freak accident. It’s not going to happen to me.’ And here we are now — 3 dead in a year.” ||||| CLOSE President Trump rolls back Obama's Cuban policy in favor of negotiating new terms; Yearbooks to be reiussed after MAGA shirt was censored 
 
 . (Photo: Getty Images/iStockphoto) 
 
 The boat lift involved in the fatal electrocution of an 11-year-old girl had corroded and fallen into disrepair, Mayor Thomas Kelaher said. 
 
 The girl, a Newark resident who was visiting friends in the township, died after she was electrocuted while swimming in a Toms River lagoon, police said. The girl and a friend were on a raft when they touched the metal boat lift, and an "electric current appears to have energized the equipment causing the injury," police said. 
 
 Kelaher said authorities were at the Tobago Avenue home Monday to inspect the boat lift. 
 
 The equipment was initially installed in 2001 and up to code, Kelaher said. Then the property, including the lift, was sold to its current homeowners, who do not own a boat and did not frequently check on the lift. 
 
 Over the years, the electrical junction box under the dock corroded, Kelaher said, and the victim fatally placed her hand on the metal frame. 
 
 "You can't really blame anybody; it's a tragic accident," Kelaher said. 
 
 The incident happened when the girl and two of her friends were using an inflatable raft and swimming in the lagoon behind the home on Saturday. 
 
 The girls were all wearing life jackets and in the presence of adults, police said. The two other girls were not injured. 
 
 MORE: Stay out of ocean because of rip tides, weather service warns 
 
 Though docks and boats are sources of electricity, few people are aware of the risk of electrocution when swimming nearby. 
 
 Swimmers should never be in the water near a marina or a running boat, according to the nonprofit organization Electrical Safety Foundation International. Electric Shock Drowning can happen when an electrical current, even a low-level current, passes through the body, according to the Electric Shock Drowning Prevention Association. The current causes muscular paralysis, and majority of these deaths happen near docks or marinas, according to the association. 
 
 MORE: Belmar drowning: Community raises $55,000 for families 
 
 Only 1/50th of the energy needed to power a 60-watt light bulb can cause paralysis and drowning, according to the Electrical Safety Foundation. 
 
 More than 70 deaths between 1986 and 2013 were caused by electrocutions near water, according to a 2014 report prepared by Quality Marine Services of Jacksonville, Florida, for the National Fire Protection Association. The company attributed an additional 38 "near misses" over that same time period to electric shocks by water. 
 
 Boat lifts were responsible for some of those deaths and near misses. In 2012, a man in Minnesota died after three people were shocked in a lake by what was presumed to be a boat lift, according to the report. In 2012, a 13-year-old girl and her 8-year-old brother were killed in Missouri while swimming near a private dock with a boat lift and water slide that had power supplies that were not properly grounded, the company found. 
 
 TAXES: Democrats' school funding plan 'catastrophic' for Toms River 
 
 Yet in New Jersey, these types are deaths are rare, said Dr. Robert Sweeney, chairman of the department of emergency medicine at Jersey Shore University Medical Center in Neptune. 
 
 Overall, deaths by electrocutions are relatively rare, he said. Sweeney added that in 25 years of living by the Jersey Shore, he has never before heard of such an incident. 
 
 "This sounds like a sad tragic accident," he said. 
 
 The Boat Owners Association of The United States describes the risk of electric shock drowning in the below video. 
 
 If someone suspects that a person in the water is being electrocuted, they should never jump in to help. They should throw in a life ring, turn off the power supply, and call 911, according to Electrical Safety Foundation International. 
 
 Tobago Avenue was quiet Sunday afternoon. A woman at the home where the electrocution happened declined to comment. A neighbor said no one on the street knew the girl. 
 
 The call to police came in at 8:12 p.m. Saturday. First responders took over CPR that had been begun by adults who were at the home, and then used an Automated External Defibrilator on the girl. The child was taken to Community Medical Center in Toms River, where she later died. 
 
 The Toms River incident is under investigation by Toms River Police Detectives Louis Santora and James Carey, along with Ocean County Prosecutor's Office Detective Lindsay Woodfield and Ocean County Sheriff’s Department C.S.I. Sgt. David Deleeuw and Officer Jillian Menke. 
 
 Amanda Oglesby: 732-557-5701; aoglesby@GannettNJ.com 
 
 After the tragedy: The scene of the Belmar rescue effort after apparent drowning. 
 
 More: Toms River man dies in Parkway crash in Tinton Falls 
 
 More: Belmar drowning: Community raises $55,000 for families 
 
 Read or Share this story: http://on.app.com/2th3kuA ||||| Get the latest from TODAY Sign up for our newsletter 
 
 The sudden death of a teenage girl has inspired her family to speak out about the dangers of electric shock drowning, in the hopes of preventing future tragedies. 
 
 “If I would have known this could happen, or heard about it before — I am not sure if this would have happened to my daughter,” Jimmy Johnson told TODAY. 
 
 Carmen, Jimmy, and Casey Johnson pose for a family picture. A month ago, Carmen died of electric shock drowning; her family wants to raise awareness about the risk of electricity and water. Courtesy of Jimmy Johnson 
 
 Electric shock drowning occurs when electricity from a dock, pool, boat, or marina leaks into the water, and people enter the water. The electricity shocks them, paralyzing their muscles making it impossible to swim, leading to the drowning. What's more, the electricity makes it difficult for people to rescue someone without suffering a shock, too. 
 
 Always a daredevil 
 
 The weekend of April 15 started like any weekend the Johnson family spent at their vacation home in Smith Lake in Winston County Alabama. Carmen, 15, invited some friends and they were having fun. That Saturday, they jet-skied, soaked in the hot tub, and sunbathed on the top of the dock. 
 
 While they sunbathed, Johnson fixed a pathway nearby when he heard a splash. Carmen dove from the top of the two-story dock into the water. 
 
 Johnson wasn’t surprised that Carmen dove off the dock — she was always a daredevil. As a flyer on the varsity cheerleading team at Priceville High School she wanted her teammates to toss her higher into the air. 
 
 The lake was 68 degrees, but chilly water wasn’t going to stop her. 
 
 Carmen Johnson stands on the top of the pyramid as a varsity cheerleader at Priceville High School in Alabama. Courtesy of Jimmy Johnson 
 
 Johnson realized Carmen didn’t put the ladder in the water, so he lowered it. He had no idea it carried an electric charge from a faulty light switch. 
 
 One of Carmen’s friends, Reagan, also jumped into the water. Reagan shrieked about the cold water, but soon uttered a cry for help that didn’t sound like a joke. 
 
 RELATED: What to know about dry drowning and how to prevent it 
 
 “I took off running between the two boat slips. I looked over to the right where the ladder was and [Reagan] was looking at me like ‘please help me.’ My daughter was three foot under like down to her knees,” Johnson said. 
 
 Jimmy and Casey Johnson, son-in-law Evan Cleghorn, daughter Chelsey Cleghorn, and daughter Carmen Johnson pose for a family photo. The Johnson family wants to raise awareness about electric shock drowning after Carmen's tragic death from it. Courtesy of Jimmy Johnson 
 
 He thought something was pulling Carmen under and he jumped in; that’s when he knew something else was wrong. 
 
 “I could feel the electrical current and it was so strong I couldn’t swim in it,” he said. 
 
 He started blacking out but when his son, Zach, jumped in, Johnson was able to scream: “Cut the power to the boat dock!" 
 
 RELATED: 30 easy steps to take your kids swimming 
 
 His wife, Casey, turned off the electricity, saving Johnson, Reagan, and Zach. By that time, Carmen slipped so far under Johnson couldn't see her. 
 
 “You just never know when something unpredictable like that could happen,” he says. “I would never have thought electricity in that big of a body of water would be so strong — strong enough that I couldn’t swim in it.” 
 
 The Johnsons practiced water safety, but they didn't know a dock could carry an electric current and cause a drowning. Since Carmen's death, they have been trying increase awareness of electric shock drowning. 
 
 “We just need to get the word out there that this is a real danger that most people don’t know about,” Johnson said. 
 
 Protecting swimmers 
 
 Kevin Ritz, founder of the Electric Shock Drowning Association, understands the Johnsons' pain: In 1999, Ritz’s 8-year-old son died after grabbing the metal ladder to the boat, which had been leaking electricity into river. 
 
 “Never in my wildest dreams did I think electricity was a concern until our son Lucas was killed,” Ritz told TODAY. 
 
 It’s difficult to estimate the number of electric shock drownings, because it typically looks the same as other cases of drowning and the victims display no telltale signs. The only way to know is if someone feels the jolt. But, the association has compiled a list of 77 fatal cases of electric shock drowning, some of which involved the deaths of multiple people. 
 
 “We believe that we just captured the tip of the iceberg,” Ritz said. “These type of things can happen anywhere there is a deadly combination of electricity and water.” 
 
 Carmen Johnson was on the varsity cheerleading team at her high school and was often on the top of the pyramid. Last month, she died of electric shock drowning in a tragic accident. Courtesy of Jimmy Johnson 
 
 How can it be avoided? 
 
 Ground fault protection devices on the power sources that switch the power off if there’s a problem with the electrical flow. Or simply shutting the electricity off when people are swimming. 
 
 “A ground fault protection device is as least as important as a seat belt,” said Ritz. 
 
 As for the Johnsons, they hope to always remember Carmen as the vibrant young woman she was. 
 
 "I am always living life to the fullest and she did the same thing," Johnson said. "She was an awesome person." 
 
 This was originally published on May 20 ||||| Nearly a year after a 15-year-old Alabama girl was killed by electric shock drowning, two women died in Lake Tuscaloosa this past weekend. 
 
 Shelly Darling, 34, and Elizabeth Whipple, 41 were found dead in the lake early Saturday morning after they were reported missing by family members. While authorities suspect electric shock may have caused Darling and Whipple to drown, an official cause of death won't be named until the Tuscaloosa County Metro Homicide Unit receives an initial autopsy report from a state forensic lab. Capt. Kip Hart said he hopes to release an official cause of death later today. 
 
 About a year before Darling and Whipple died, Carmen Johnson, a 15-year-old Priceville High School cheerleader drowned after being electrocuted at her family's boat dock on Smith Lake in Winston County on April 16, 2016. Since then, Carmen's parents, Casey and Jimmy Johnson, have made it their mission to educate the public about electric shock drowning. The family lives in Morgan County but enjoys spending free time at the lake house. 
 
 "We don't want anyone else to go through what we've experienced," Casey Johnson told AL.com. "We could just not talk about it. But, we know Carmen would want us to talk about this and save another life." 
 
 The Johnsons and friends were at the family's lake home in Winston County when Carmen and her friend Reagan Gargis dove into the water on April 16, 2016. Seeing the ladder wasn't down for the girls to climb out of the water, Jimmy Johnson placed it in the lake. 
 
 Soon the father heard the girls cry for help and jumped in the lake hoping to save them. His son Zach also jumped in to help but they, too, were being shocked by an electric current that was transferring into the water through the metal ladder. 
 
 Jimmy Johnson, who works in electronic repairs, realized they were being shocked and managed to shout for his wife to cut the power to the dock. But, Carmen Johnson didn't survive. 
 
 "If my husband hadn't went into the water, we wouldn't have known what was going on," Casey Johnson said. Because electric shock drowning typically doesn't leave visible proof on victims' bodies, it's unlikely anyone would have known about the electrocution if others hadn't been in the water and felt the shock. The electrocution can paralyze swimmers, making it difficult for them to get out of the water. 
 
 The current that shocked Carmen Johnson was caused by water seeping into a light switch box at the family's dock, according to her mother. When the metal ladder was put in the water, the electrical current from the switch traveled through the dock, down the ladder and into the water. 
 
 "I think when Reagan touched the ladder and Carmen grabbed Reagan's legs trying to pull herself up, she got the full force of the current," Casey Johnson said. 
 
 The story of Carmen's death made national news, including a segment on the TODAY Show. Her parents suggest these tips for ensuring safety while swimming near boat docks: 
 
 Check wiring often -- even a couple of times each year. Something as simple as a round of bad weather can cause damage. 
 
 Make sure there's a ground fault breaker at the dock 
 
 Anyone who feels tingles or shocks while swimming, should move away from the dock, not toward it. 
 
 Know where the power cutoff is and make sure others outside the water know, too 
 
 Plastic or wooden ladders are preferable, rather than metal or aluminum ones 
 
 "It can be any moment, anywhere that something happens," Casey Johnson said. "We have heard from several people about how they lost family members to electric shock drowning." 
 
 Jimmy and Zach Johnson and Gargis survived the incident and haven't experienced any problems since, Casey Johnson said. 
 
 The number of people who drown as a result of electrocution is difficult to track because death reports seldom name electrocution as a factor in drowning fatalities, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. More than 3,000 people typically drown each year in the United States, the CDC reports. It is unclear how many of those drownings are caused by electric shock. 
 
 Authorities suspect electric shock played a role in the deaths of Darling and Whipple because an investigator was shocked during the search Saturday. Hart said other members of the search crew reported seeing a spark from the shock. The investigator was not injured. 
 
 Family members found the Darling and Whipple's belongings on the dock and called police to report them missing. 
 
 Whipple was the interim director of the domestic violence clinic at the University of Alabama School of Law. 
 
 Darling, a native of Vestavia Hills, was a clinic staff attorney at the University of Alabama School of Law. ||||| Please enable Javascript to watch this video 
 
 TOMS RIVER, N.J. –– An 11-year-old girl was electrocuted inside a lagoon behind a New Jersey home Saturday evening, police said Sunday. 
 
 The Toms River Police Department says a 911 call was placed from 45 Tobago Ave. around 8 p.m. for a possible electrocution. Arriving officers performed CPR on the young girl before she was taken to a hospital, where she died. 
 
 A preliminary investigation found that the child and her two friends were using an inflatable raft and swimming in the lagoon behind the home, police said. The girls were wearing lifejackets and in the presence of adults. 
 
 Two of the girls touched the rail to a metal boat lift and the electrical current appears to have energized the equipment causing the injury, police said. 
 
 The girl is a resident of Newark, New Jersey who was visiting friends at the Tobago Avenue address. 
 
 The two other juvenile girls that accompanied her were evaluated at the scene and determined not to be injured. ||||| These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.The goal is to fix all broken links on the web . Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites.