Source: Multi-News

Helsinki, 5 July 2016: Despite the positive results of small studies and a widely held belief in its benefit, the practice of keeping female patients immobilised after intrauterine insemination has no beneficial effect on pregnancy rates, according to results of a large randomised study presented here at the Annual Meeting of ESHRE in Helsinki.(1) "Indeed," said investigator Joukje van Rijswijk from the VU University Medical Center Amsterdam, "it even tends to the opposite." 
 
 Behind her conclusions lies a large randomised comparative study in which 479 patients with standard indications for IUI (unexplained or mild male factor infertility) were randomly assigned to 15 minutes of immobilisation immediately after insemination or to immediate mobilisation. With most patients having several cycles of IUI in their treatment course, the comparison was based on a total of 950 cycles of immobilisation and 984 cycles of mobilisation. 
 
 Results showed that the cumulative ongoing pregnancy rate per couple (that is, after the total course of treatment, which in some cases ran to six cycles) was comparable between the two groups - a pregnancy rate of 32.2% after 15 minutes of immobilisation and 40.3% after immediate mobilisation. These differences were not statistically significant, despite the trend, indicating no benefit from a brief period of bed rest after insemination. "In our opinion," said Dr van Rijswijk, "immobilisation after IUI has no positive effect on pregnancy rates, and there is no reason why patients should stay immobilised after treatment." 
 
 She acknowledged that these results were "in disagreement with the literature", from which a widespread acceptance of bed rest after IUI had evolved. A smaller study published last year from the Middle East found that ten and 15 minutes of immobilisation following IUI (compared to five minutes) had a beneficial effect on pregnancy rates. However, the results were based on just one cycle of treatment and not on the more real-world context of multiple cycles. Another smaller Dutch study published in 2009 also found that 15 minutes bed rest improved pregnancy rate and "should be offered to all women treated with intrauterine insemination".(2) 
 
 "It was these previous studies showing a benefit of bed rest which prompted us to perform this study," said Dr van Rijswijk. "Our goal was to replicate the results. There's always a possibility that a positive outcome in studies is the result of chance. We also know from other studies that sperm cells can reach the fallopian tube five minutes after intravaginal insemination and that they can survive for several days in the womb. Why should bed rest affect that? There's no biological explanation for a positive effect of immobilisation", which, she added, is usually carried out in a supine position with the knees raised. 
 
 "We believe our results in such a large randomised trial are solid, and sufficiently strong to render the recommendation for bed rest obsolete," she said. 
 
 Asked if bed rest might also be of no help in natural conception plans, Dr van Rijswijk said the two insemination techniques are just too different to generalise, and she pointed out that as far as she is aware there have been no randomised trials to test the efficacy of a short period of immobility after the attempt. 
 
 ### 
 
 Abstract O-165, Tuesday 5 July 2016, 15.30 
 
 Should patients be immobilised after intrauterine insemination? A randomised controlled comparison between 15 minutes of immobilisation and direct mobilisation 
 
 Notes 
 
 1. Intrauterine insemination (IUI) is a very common fertility treatment in which a sample of sperm cells (from donor or partner) in fluid are injected directly into the uterus. Today, most recipients of the treatment are given some ovarian stimulation to encourage follicle growth. IUI is usually offered as first-line fertility treatment before IVF in couples whose infertility is unexplained (idiopathic) or caused by mild male factors which may not require ICSI. Several factors are related to pregnancy outcomes, but so far now no consensus exists on whether immobilisation is of benefit. 
 
 2. Custers IM, Flierman PA, Maas P, et al. Immobilisation versus immediate mobilisation after intrauterine insemination: randomised controlled trial. BMJ 2009; 339: b4080. 
 
 A podcast of Dr van Rijswijk speaking about this study is available at https:/ / www. eshre2016. eu/ Media/ Press-releases/ van-Rijswijk/ Podcast. aspx 
 
 When obtaining outside comment, journalists are requested to ensure that their contacts are aware of the embargo on this release. 
 
 For further information on the details of this press release, contact: 
 
 Christine Bauquis at ESHRE 
 
 Mobile: +32 (0)499 25 80 46 
 
 Email: christine@eshre.eu ||||| Noah Salzgeber / EyeEm/ Getty 
 
 If you’ve ever tried to get pregnant, you’ll almost certainly have heard that it helps if a woman lies still after her partner ejaculates. But this is unlikely to make a difference, a study suggests. 
 
 The idea is that lying down for a while gives the sperm time to reach their destination egg. The same theory has been applied to intra-uterine insemination (IUI), a fertility treatment that involves injecting sperm directly into a woman’s uterus. 
 
 “There’s a lot of anxiety that after IUI if you stand up, everything will fall out,” says Nick Macklon of the University of Southampton, UK. 
 
 Advertisement 
 
 Some research has backed up the theory. Some small studies in 2009 and 2015 found that 15 minutes of bed rest improved IUI success rates, leading to more pregnancies. But now Joukje van Rijswijk at the VU University Medical Center Amsterdam in the Netherlands and her colleagues have conducted a larger study. 
 
 The team randomly assigned 479 women receiving IUI to either 15 minutes of bed rest or to get up and move around straight after treatment. Most of the women had several rounds of treatment – in total, the group collected data on almost 2000 IUI cycles. 
 
 They found that 32 per cent of the cycles that incorporated bed rest resulted in pregnancy, but 40 per cent of cycles that involved immediate movement were successful. “In our opinion, immobilisation after IUI has no positive effect on pregnancy rates,” says van Rijswijk. “There is no reason why patients should stay immobilised after treatment.” 
 
 Although the results contradict previous findings, they make sense. For example, it is known that sperm can survive in the uterus for several days – there is no reason why bed rest would affect this, says van Rijswijk, who presented the findings this week at the European Society of Human Reproduction and Endocrinology annual meeting in Helsinki, Finland. 
 
 Our crude understanding of female anatomy is partly to blame for the theory, says Adam Balen, chair of the British Fertility Society. Anatomical illustrations often depict the uterus and vagina as directly aligned, with a straight-line passage from uterus to vagina to the outside world. In reality, our internal organs are somewhat tilted, he says. 
 
 Van Rijswijk doesn’t know if rest improves the chances of conceiving naturally because no studies have fully investigated this, she says. But the findings undermine the “lying still, feet-in-the-air” advice given to many women trying to conceive, says Macklon. 
 
 Read more: When should you get pregnant? Computer knows age to start trying