Source: Multi-News

Kris Jenner—Kardashian matriarch and momager extraordinaire—celebrated her 60th birthday over the weekend and leave it up to this clan to celebrate in an over-the-top fashion. In a video posted to Jenner’s YouTube channel Saturday, the entire family and a bevy of famous friends paid musical tribute to Kris. The song is “I Love L.A.” by Randy Newman but the lyrics—referencing Nobu, Givenchy, and the Beverly Hills Hotel—are pure Kardashian. The video starts with something Kris herself whipped up back in 1985 to pay tribute to her friends. The original video includes her tiny daughters Khloe, Kim, and Kourtney along with, jarringly, O.J. Simpson. 
 
 Fast forward to 2015 and the Jenner/Kardashian lifestyle has changed somewhat dramatically. Gone are references to “bible study” and “The Cheesecake Factory” that pepper the original song. Instead we have Khloe, Kim, Kourtney, Kendall, and Kylie climbing aboard exercise equipment just like their mother did back in the 80s and bringing in a supporting cast of famous faces including Justin Bieber, Katy Perry, and Kanye West to (literally) sing Kris’s praises. The video ends with the biggest change of all to Kris’s life: Caitlyn Jenner. Rumors that the exes have worked through their differences appear to be true and the former Olympian athlete showed off her enviable legs by taping her section of the video from a bubble bath. 
 
 The video was only one small part of a lavish Gatsby-themed bash the Jenner/Kardashian kids threw for their mom on Friday. 
 
 Loading View on Instagram 
 
 Kanye crooned a version of Happy Birthday to his mother-in-law as she contemplated a gorgeous art deco cake. 
 
 Loading View on Instagram 
 
 The girls were all dressed to the nines. 
 
 Loading View on Instagram 
 
 And the joint was jumping with celebrity guests including the likes of Chrissy Teigen and John Legend. 
 
 Loading View on Instagram 
 
 By all appearance, the Kardashians and Jenners know how to party. But you already knew that, didn’t you? ||||| Kris Jenner turned 60 on Thursday, and the reality TV matriarch and “momager” celebrated in a big way on Friday night with a Great Gatsby-themed soiree at The Lot in West Hollywood, California. 
 
 Kris' daughters, Khloe and Kourtney Kardashian, were spotted arriving at the party dressed in vintage ensembles to fit the theme. 
 
 Inside the party, Kris and all her daughters -- Khloe, Kourtney, Kim Kardashian, Kendall Jenner and Kylie Jenner -- gathered to snap a family photo in their vintage garb and danced to '20s tunes, spun by DJ Cassidy. 
 
 Famous guests at the swanky soiree included Kim and husband Kanye West; Kylie's boyfriend, Tyga; Lisa Rinna and Harry Hamlin; Chrissy Teigen and John Legend; Melanie Griffith and daughter Stella Banderas; Courtney Love; Givenchy's Riccardo Tisci; Cheryl Burke; and Mel B. and husband Stephen Belafonte. 
 
 WATCH: Caitlyn Jenner Wishes Kris a Happy Birthday Alongside Daughters Kim, Kourtney, and Khloe Kardashian 
 
 All six of Kris’ children, including her son Rob, were listed on the invitation, which promised “champagne flowing” and asked guests to “inspire their attire” in the style of the “Gatsby Era.” 
 
 WATCH: Khloe Kardashian Plans Lamar Odom's 36th Birthday Party in the Hospital 
 
 
 
 The party was a true vintage throwback, with Classic Party Rentals decking out the space at the luxurious studio complex with lots of feathers, chandeliers and white flowers. 
 
 Kendall stayed true to the theme, sharing a pic on Twitter of her “Miss Daisy” getup for the party. 
 
 Kylie donned a silver-beaded vintage dress to pose in some Instagram shots with her dates for the evening, big sister Kourtney and Tyga, who both looked dapper in suits. 
 
 Kylie later posted a Snapchat pic of her and Tyga smooching from in the party's photo booth. 
 
 Kim dazzled in a beautiful silver gown, posing alongside her handsome husband. 
 
 WATCH: Kylie Jenner Posts Underwear Selfie on Mom Kris Jenner's 60th Birthday 
 
 
 
 All of Kris’ kids sent their mom birthday wishes this week, but it was a surprise from Jenner’s granddaughters, North West and Penelope Disick, that got the reality star truly emotional. 
 
 “I'm not sure how to express my feelings for the best birthday gift ever.... Except to say that in true Kris Jenner fashion, I BURST into tears,” Kris captioned an Instagram pic of the sweet card and cake the girls presented her with on Thursday. “Beyond the best from my two little ballerinas.” 
 
 WATCH: Caitlyn Jenner Sends Kris Jenner Sweet Birthday Message Alongside Kim, Khloe and Kourtney 
 
