Source: Multi-News

Kerry Biggs needed help managing her chronic pain. 
 
 Years of taking prescription medications to alleviate the pain caused by her fibromyalgia, rheumatoid arthritis and other ailments had left the mother of two "feeling foggy." 
 
 Desperate to find an alternative, Biggs tried kratom. Derived from the leaves of the kratom tree, a close relative of the coffee plant, it has been used for centuries in Southeast Asia for its medicinal properties. 
 
 In small doses, kratom acts as a minor stimulant similar to caffeine. In larger doses its works as a painkiller and can act as an antidepressant for some people. 
 
 "It gave me a new lease on life," said Biggs, who was able to wean herself off prescription painkillers by using kratom. "It dampened down my pain without all the side effects that come with taking prescription drugs." 
 
 That new lease on life came to an abrupt end last year, because Biggs lives in Wisconsin. In 2014, Wisconsin became the fourth state to ban kratom. 
 
 Kratom was never mentioned by state legislators either before or after the vote that made it illegal. 
 
 Instead, two of the chemicals in it were included on a list of synthetic opioids lawmakers classified as Schedule 1 drugs, despite the fact kratom is neither synthetic nor an opioid. 
 
 No one in Madison has been able to explain how or why the chemicals ended up on the list, but their inclusion means kratom is now in the same category as heroin and cocaine. 
 
 At a meeting of the Wisconsin Controlled Substances Board last week, board member Alan Bloom said he was surprised to see the kratom on the list of schedule substances. 
 
 "They stick out like a sore thumb," said Bloom, a professor of pharmacology and toxicology at the Medical College of Wisconsin. 
 
 Bloom was blunt in his assessment of the scheduling of kratom. "There's no scientific basis for it," he told his colleagues. 
 
 But state lawmakers aren't required to rely on science in their decisions. In 2012, legislators in Indiana made kratom illegal by declaring it to be a synthetic drug. 
 
 Tennessee and Vermont followed Indiana's example, treating a tree's leaves like something created in a lab. 
 
 "Most people in this country have never heard of kratom, and there's a lot of bad information out there about it," said Susan Ash, executive director of the American Kratom Association. 
 
 Ash has used kratom since 2011 to manage the symptoms of advanced Lyme disease. She founded AKA last year to advocate for people who use kratom and combat misinformation and efforts to ban it. 
 
 "There are some companies out there who aren't interested in helping people and they are promoting kratom as a 'legal high.' That's led to some hysterical stories in the media," Ash said. 
 
 "Usually it's a story by a local TV news crew. They usually claim it's a dangerous new synthetic drug, even though it's not synthetic and it's been used for hundreds of years in Asia. They never talk to people who use for health reasons." ||||| Question 
 
 What is kratom, and is it a helpful remedy or a harmful drug? 
 
 Gayle Nicholas Scott, PharmD 
 
 Assistant Professor, Eastern Virginia Medical School, Norfolk, Virginia 
 
 Kratom (Mitragyna speciosa) is a tree-like plant in the same botanical family as the coffee tree and gardenia (Rubiaceae), and is native to Southeast Asia. Other names for kratom are ketum, thang, icthang, kakuam, kraton, thom, and biak-biak. 
 
 Kratom has been used for centuries in Thailand, Malaysia, and Indonesia to combat fatigue and, empirically, to treat pain and opioid withdrawal symptoms.[1,2] It is most commonly used orally, as fresh leaves that are chewed or that have been prepared as an extract, or as dried plant material brewed as a tea or ingested in gelatin capsules. Less frequently, kratom is smoked.[1,2] 
 
 Effects are reported to be dose-dependent. Doses of 1-5 g have a stimulant effect and increase energy. Moderate to high doses (5-15 g) have opioid-like effects, including euphoria. Doses > 15 g can cause extreme sedation and stupor, similar to opioids. 
 
 The indole alkaloid mitragynine appears to be responsible for the opioid-like effects of kratom. Mitragynine has high affinity for mu-opioid receptors, but less than morphine. Affinity for delta- and kappa-opioid receptors are lower than for mu, but higher than the affinity of morphine for delta and kappa. 
 
 Animal research suggests that kratom has analgesic effects that are reversed by naloxone, and that kratom may have anti-inflammatory and anorexic effects. Some effects of mitragynine appear to be independent of opioid receptor activity and may involve noradrenergic and serotonergic mechanisms.[1] 
 
 Animal research suggests that kratom can be addictive, and observational research in chronic kratom users in Malaysia suggests that kratom can lead to dependence, although social functioning does not appear to be impaired.[3,4] 
 
 Despite its potentially addictive properties, kratom is currently legal in most states. Kratom is regulated in the United States as a dietary supplement and can be purchased in smoke shops and on the Internet. Recently, however, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) moved to ban the importation of kratom, calling it a "new dietary ingredient," on the basis of lack of marketing documentation in the United States before the enactment of the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994. The FDA also cited the absence of established safety and potential toxicity.[5,6] 
 
 Acute adverse effects of kratom include anxiety, irritability, and aggression, as well as opioid-like effects, such as sedation, nausea, constipation, and itching. Chronic high-dose use has been associated with hyperpigmentation of the cheeks, tremor, weight loss, and psychosis.[1,2] 
 
 Cases of both overdose and withdrawal have been reported by poison control centers. Common presentations of overdose include palpitations and seizures. Withdrawal symptoms include myalgia, insomnia, fatigue, and chest discomfort. Withdrawal symptoms have even occurred in the infant of a chronic kratom-using mother.[7,8] Fatalities possibly attributed to kratom, usually in combination with other drugs, have been reported.[9-11] 
 
 Kratom appears to have a strong drug interaction potential. Kratom extracts inhibit CYP2C9, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4 in vitro.[12,13] Kratom is sometimes combined with O-desmethyltramadol, a tramadol (Ultram®) metabolite, in a product called "krypton."[9] Additive depressant effects on the central nervous system, along with potential metabolic drug interactions, in theory may increase its opioid-like effects. 
 
 Kratom use appears to be increasing in the United States and worldwide.[7,8] Routine toxicologic screens do not detect kratom.[14] Healthcare providers caring for patients who present for emergency treatment should be aware that kratom use may be responsible for otherwise unexplained stimulant or depressive symptoms. ||||| Vivazen, a shot-format herbal liquid supplement marketed for pain relief, has removed the controversial ingredient kratom from its formulation. The decision to do so comes out of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)’s continued crackdown on kratom, a botanical that’s been characterized as producing opiate-like effects and addictive properties. 
 
 In February the FDA issued an “Import Alert 54-15” for kratom, made from the leaves of a tree native to Southeast Asia, effectively suspending its import into the United States for use as a dietary ingredient or supplement. 
 
 “There is inadequate information to provide reasonable assurance that such ingredient does not present a significant or unreasonable risk of illness or injury,” the agency wrote. 
 
 The FDA also pointed to scientific research concerning the toxicity of kratom with regards to internal organ systems. In September, 2014, U.S. Marshals, on behalf of the FDA, seized more than 25,000 pounds of raw kratom (estimated to be worth more than $5 million) from Van Nuys, Calif.-based Rosefield Management. 
 
 Following the FDA’s suppression of the ingredient, a wave of negative press began surfacing around kratom and specifically Vivazen, which listed the ingredient on its label. In a news report aired in June, Birmingham’s WIAT called the product “addiction in a bottle.” Three months later a machete-wielding man robbed an Anniston, Ala. gas station, taking a half case of Vivazen with him in addition to the contents of the cash register. Online bulletin board Reddit has numerous posts of people chronicling their experiences with the drug. 
 
 Meanwhile, Vivazen sales rose dramatically, achieving a 1064.4 percent increase in dollar sales over the 52-week period dating from September 6, 2014 to September 5, 2015, when it reached $5.9 million according to Nielsen sales data. 
 
 Following a brief period in which Vivazen was unavailable for purchase, the reformulated product has resurfaced on the company’s website with four new additions to its offerings, all of which are now CGMP-certified. Offering a range of functionalities, the new 2 oz. shots come in Bliss, Relax, Pain and Sleep varieties. Twelve-packs of Vivazen are sold on the site for $66.98. 
 
 The popularity of Vivazen has apparently led other companies to emulate its success, albeit illegally, according to United Naturals, the maker of Vivazen. The company filed a legal complaint against LXR Biotech and Capital Sales Company in the U.S. district court for the Eastern District of Michigan, accusing the companies of illegally manufacturing and distributing counterfeit Vivazen products. 
 
 United Naturals did not immediately respond to requests for comment for this story. ||||| ABC 33/40 has a follow-up to a story we first told you about last week. Talladega County drug agents say a sweep of products containing Kratom was a success. The agents gave store operators 24 hours to remove the herbal supplement from their shelves or face jail. 
 
 This time last week, it was not hard to find these little bottles containing Kratom in Talladega County. ABC 33/40 looked for Kratom at a few stores in a half-mile area and couldn't find one. Drug agents in this county told store operators Kratom is illegal. Some law enforcement agencies say it is not true. 
 
 "When they came, we took everything down the same day, boxed it up and took it back to the vendor we bought it from, " said Cashier Sam Elsaidi. 
 
 Elsaidi wasted no time following the orders from Talladega County's Drug Task Force. 
 
 "They said if we still have it after 24 hours, they are going to come back here and there will be a problem like taking someone to jail," added Elsaidi. 
 
 Customers at Elsaidi's gas station noticed quickly they'd have to go far to get it. 
 
 "They would come in here asking do we have it. We would answer no and they would say Talladega County is crazy and ask why," added Elsaidi. 
 
 Drug agents hand-delivered letters insisting store owners comply with the law and ordered them off shelves. 
 
 "This all started because we started getting complaints from parents. Some were talking about their kids walking around like a bunch of zombies. Then we had others who said they were bouncing off of the wall," said Talladega County Drug Task Force Commander Jason Murray. 
 
 Some other law enforcement agencies in Central Alabama have not removed Kratom from stores. 
 
 "It all boils down to the interpretation of the law. My district attorney interprets it is illegal because it hits the opiate receptor of the brain," added Murray. 
 
 Murray knows some people claim Kratom isn't bad. 
 
 "You know, they said the same thing about spice. They said the same thing about ecstasy. They say the same the same thing about marijuana. There is a debate going on about that. Our job is to protect the public and that is what we are doing," added Murray. 
 
 Elsaidi has no problem keeping the Kratom out of his store. He's concerned about a similar looking product from vendors, expected to come out next month, claiming to not contain the herbal supplement. ||||| Keep Kratom Safe and Legal 
 
 Millions of Americans depend on natural kratom for their health and wellness. In fact, kratom has been used for centuries as a natural remedy for pain management and other benefits. However, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is using incomplete and even false science in order to prohibit the manufacturing and sale of natural kratom. 
 
 The American Kratom Association is your advocate in the effort to keep kratom safe and available, not only by challenging the FDA to be honest and transparent in its analysis and the information it shares about what centuries have proven to be a safe botanical, but working with industry farmers, manufacturers, and distributors to keep natural kratom pure. What you can do… ||||| Concern is particularly high in South Florida, where a rising concentration of drug-treatment providers has coincided with the sprouting of kratom bars. But kratom is now available around the country. Powdered forms of the leaf are sold at head shops and gas-station convenience stores and on the Internet. Bars have recently opened in Colorado, New York, North Carolina and other states where customers nurse brewed varieties, varying in strength, from plastic bottles that resemble those for fruit juice. 
 
 Photo 
 
 Kratom exists in a kind of legal purgatory. Because it is categorized as a botanic dietary supplement, the Food and Drug Administration cannot restrict its sale unless it is proved unsafe or producers claim that it treats a medical condition. (Some packages are coyly labeled “not for human consumption” to avoid tripping such alarms.) 
 
 The F.D.A. did ban the import of kratom into the United States in 2014, however, under its authority when a substance is strongly suspected to be harmful. That year, marshals seized 25,000 pounds of it from a Los Angeles warehouse. 
 
 The Drug Enforcement Administration has listed kratom as a “drug of concern” but not a controlled substance, which would require proven health risks and abuse potential. Indiana, Tennessee, Vermont and Wyoming have banned it on their own; several other states, including Florida and New Jersey, have set aside similar bills until more is known about kratom’s health risks. The Army has forbidden its use by soldiers. 
 
 Kratom has been linked to seizures and respiratory depression, but deaths related to it appear rare. Linda Mautner, who lives in the Delray Beach area, has claimed that her 20-year-old son, Ian, committed suicide in 2014 in the throes of kratom addiction, but Mr. Mautner was also receiving treatment for depression. Some deaths in the United States have resulted from kratom’s being laced with the prescription pain reliever hydrocodone or morphine. 
 
 Kratom’s narcotic effects have been known for centuries in its native Thailand, which banned the substance decades ago amid widespread abuse. Nevertheless, kratom being sold in the United States is still smuggled in from Thailand, as well as several other Southeast Asian countries. Western research of kratom is in its infancy. 
 
 Some kratom advocates claim that it helped wean them from stronger and more dangerous opiates. Susan Ash of Norfolk, Va., said she had taken kratom during treatment for dependence on prescription painkillers, and now uses a small amount daily for chronic pain and depression. Last year, she founded the American Kratom Association, a consumer group of more than 2,000 members that lobbies against state bills to ban the substance. 
 
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
 
 “We know from all our experiences that kratom has the potential to be a wonderful medicine,” said Ms. Ash, 46, adding that her organization receives little funding from kratom manufacturers. “We’re all experiencing that it’s changing our lives. We do agree that more science is needed to actually prove this potential that we know it has.” 
 
 Photo 
 
 Meanwhile, kratom is sold somewhat under the radar. In Carrboro, N.C., a nonalcoholic bar called Krave serves kratom drinks under the name “ketum” to deter connections to the substance’s darker side, the owner, Elizabeth Gardner, said. Ms. Gardner added that if she learns that a customer is in substance-abuse recovery, she will disclose concerns about kratom’s potential addictiveness. 
 
 Kavasutra, a popular chain of bars that sell kratom and kava, another plant-based drink, does not list kratom on its menu, but sells it regularly in bottles and small plastic bags of powder. 
 
 Kavasutra’s owner, Dylan Harrison, was once one of South Florida’s primary manufacturers and distributors of spice, a synthetic hallucinogen banned under federal law. He was released from federal prison in August 2014 after serving 10 months on drug charges. Several telephone messages left for Mr. Harrison were not returned. 
 
 Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters. 
 
 Mr. Mautner’s death has fueled debates among South Florida lawmakers over making kratom illegal, a move supported by the Broward County Medical Association. Neither Broward County nor Palm Beach County, which includes Delray Beach, has done so, however, and Palm Beach County decided in April to not require warning signs of kratom’s addictiveness at bars and stores that sell it. 
 
 Ms. Pankova frequented the Kavasutra in Delray Beach not only because kratom soothed her cravings for opiates, she said, but also because it was not detectable on the drug tests she took as part of her recovery program. Many drug-treatment providers consider kratom use a full-fledged relapse. Ms. Pankova said she and many friends wound up spending $60 a day on kratom drinks before moving back to less expensive heroin. 
 
 Another South Florida resident with that experience, Robert Waina, said he had abused dozens of different drugs before discovering kratom three years ago. He enjoyed the mild high to the point that he found himself ordering bottle after bottle. When he tried to cut back, he couldn’t, and eventually suffered from such withdrawals that he had to go to rehab for kratom three times, most recently last spring. 
 
 Sitting in a coffee shop in Delray Beach, Mr. Waina said recently that he had stayed sober since then, avoiding kratom like any other drug. 
 
 “If I’m taking it,” he said, “as far as I’m concerned, I’m not clean.”