Source: Multi-News

DETROIT A Satanic organization unveiled a controversial bronze Baphomet sculpture in Detroit just before midnight on Saturday, after trying in vain to have it installed near a 10 Commandments monument in Oklahoma. 
 
 Due to planned demonstrations, the group, which is opposed to Bible-themed displays on government land, kept the location of the unveiling of its 9-foot-tall monument secret until the last moment, when it emailed the information to ticket holders. 
 
 The Satanic Temple unveiled the one-ton statue at an industrial building near the Detroit River just before 11:30 p.m. local time as supporters cheered, "Hail Satan." Some of the hundreds in attendance rushed to pose for photos. 
 
 The statue of a winged Baphomet with a human body and a goat's head resembled a design the group previously released. Statues of a boy and a girl stood in poses of adoration on either side. 
 
 Jex Blackmore, director of the Satanic Temple Detroit chapter, said temple members planned to transport the sculpture to Arkansas, where earlier this year the governor signed a bill authorizing a 10 Commandments monument on the State Capitol's grounds. 
 
 The Temple had unsuccessfully applied to have the statue placed near a 10 Commandments monument installed in 2012 on the Oklahoma State Capitol grounds. The Oklahoma Supreme Court recently ruled the 10 Commandments monument violates a section of the state constitution that bans the use of state property for the benefit of a religion. 
 
 Lawmakers in the socially conservative state responded with threats to seek the impeachment of the court's justices and pledged to push for changes to the constitution. 
 
 Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin, a Republican, said she will keep the monument in place as the state appeals the decision. 
 
 On Saturday, the presentation of Baphomet in Detroit drew protest from local Christians. About 50 people prayed for the city and denounced the monument outside a business where the Satanic Temple previously tried to display the statue before fears of a backlash scuttled the plan. 
 
 "The last thing we need in Detroit is having a welcome home party for evil," said Reverend Dave Bullock, a pastor at Greater St. Matthew Baptist Church in Highland Park, Michigan. 
 
 (Editing by Alex Dobuzinskis) ||||| The Satanic Temple is a non-theistic religious organization dedicated to Satanic practice and the promotion of Satanic rights. We understand the Satanic figure as a symbol of man’s inherent nature, representative of the eternal rebel, enlightened inquiry and personal freedom rather than a supernatural deity or being. It is our mission to facilitate communication and mobilization of politically aware Satanists, secularists, and advocates for individual liberty. We actively provide outreach and participate in public affairs where the issues might benefit from rational, Satanic insights. 
 
 The Detroit Chapter is officially affiliated with the national Satanic Temple organization, we are a self-organized, volunteer-led group that seeks to organize and empower like-minded individuals who are passionate about supporting The Satanic Temple’s mission. We promote awareness of the Satanic cause, educate our peers and encourage critical thinking, activism and justice within the Detroit community. 
 
 Our Mission 
 
 The Satanic Temple (TST) facilitates the communication and mobilization of politically aware Satanists, secularists, and advocates for individual liberty. The mission of The Satanic Temple is to encourage benevolence and empathy among all people. In addition, we embrace practical common sense and justice. 
 
 As an organized religion, we feel it is our function to actively provide outreach, to lead by example, and to participate in public affairs wheresoever the issues might benefit from rational, Satanic insights. As Satanists, we all should be guided by our consciences to undertake noble pursuits guided by our individual wills. We believe that this is the hope of all mankind and the highest aspiration of humanity. 
 
 What we Believe 
 
 The Satanic Temple practices non-theistic Satanism, we believe that religion can, and should, be divorced from superstition. As such, we do not believe in either God or the Devil as supernatural forces. We bow to no god or gods and celebrate our outsider status. To embrace the name Satan is to embrace rational inquiry removed from supernaturalism and archaic tradition-based superstitions. The Satanist should actively work to hone critical thinking and exercise reasonable inquiry in all things. Our beliefs must be malleable to the best current scientific understandings of the material world — never the reverse. 
 
 What does Satan mean to The Satanic Temple? 
 
 Satan is symbolic of the Eternal Rebel in opposition to arbitrary authority, forever defending personal sovereignty even in the face of insurmountable odds. Satan is an icon for the unbowed will of the relentless inquirer… the heretic who questions sacred laws and rejects all tyrannical impositions. This concept provides us with an exemplar by which we live our lives; he is a symbol of defiance, of independence, of wisdom and self-empowerment. Satanism does not provide some artificial framework for coping with the world, but rather, it serves as an affirmation of natural existence. Ours is the historical and literary Satan, akin to western literary traditions expressed in texts such as Milton’s Paradise Lost and France’s The Revolt of the Angels, the roots of which lie in a metaphorical construct of the adversary which pre-dates even Judeo-Christian faith. 
 
 On Non-Theistic Religions 
 
 The idea that religion belongs to supernaturalists is backwards, and offensive. There are several other recognized Religions that are largely considered to be atheistic (Buddism for example). The metaphorical Satanic construct is no more arbitrary to us than are the deeply held beliefs that we actively advocate for. Are we supposed to believe that those who pledge submission to an ethereal supernatural deity hold to their values more deeply than we? Are we supposed to concede that only the superstitious are proper recipients of religious exemption and privilege? In fact, Satanism provides us all that a religion should, without a compulsory attachment to untenable items of faith-based belief: It provides a narrative structure by which we contextualize our lives and works. It provides a body of symbolism and religious practice — a sense of identity, culture, community, and shared values. 
 
 How we differ from Secular Philosophies 
 
 A unifying attribute of all Satanists is our embrace of our outsider status. Satanists adhere to the principles of individual sovereignty and rejection of tyrannical authority. Additionally, Satanism is deeply rooted within a rich historical and literary framework, which spans thousands of years in cultures across the globe. We embrace our philosophic roots as part of our religion. These histories and concerns are of tantamount importance to us, but are not fundamental components of Humanism or other secular philosophies. 
 
 What sets us apart from other Satanic organizations 
 
 Modern Satanic organizations have typically concentrated almost solely on pointless and misguided efforts to define, and establish a monopoly upon, a model of the “one true Satanism”. This obsession with ownership has fomented an unfortunate culture in which Satanism’s most vitriolic critics are often self- identified Satanists themselves. The Satanic Temple is not only uninterested in establishing itself as the sole arbiter of Satanic practice, but has always been open to working with other self-identified Satanic organizations to promote general recognition of Satanic legitimacy. While many Satanic organizations seem to take pleasure in needless hierarchies while isolating themselves in petty organizational autocracy, The Satanic Temple disdains rigid, centralized authority and focuses its efforts in effecting tangible change — to our benefit — in the real world. The time for a politically active, relevant Satanic movement is now. 
 
 ACTIVISM AND THE SATANIC PHILOSOPHY 
 
 Satanism is a philosophy of Action. The Satanic Temple often serves as a “poison pill” in the Church/State debate. Satanists, asserting their religious rights and privileges where religious agendas have been successful in imposing themselves upon public affairs, can serve as a poignant reminder that such privileges are for everyone. We understand that self-identified Satanists deserve just as much consideration as any other religions group. We are a sincere movement that stands in defiance of the unopposed, dogmatic moral legislation from a singular powerful religious voice. We refuse to be enslaved by a theocratic system, which openly seeks to control and destroy sexuality, individual autonomy and critical thinking. As the Eternal Rebel once defied the tyrant god, we too will rebel. 
 
 Download a PDF of The Satanic Temple Introductory Primer 
 
 Our Tenents ||||| The Satanic Temple of Detroit unveiled an enormous bronze Baphomet statue Saturday night despite protests from the local community. 
 
 A group of Satanists in in Detroit unveiled a 1.5-ton, 8.5-foot bronze statue of Baphomet flanked by two young children, shown here in New York, on Saturday night. 
 
 In an effort to make a statement against religious monuments on government property, members of the Satanic Temple of Detroit unveiled a statue of a goat-headed winged statue in Detroit on Saturday night. 
 
 The 9-foot-tall bronze statue of Baphomet made its public debut at a ticketed event in an industrial building near the Detroit River. The monument was revealed shortly before midnight as hundreds of supporters cheered and chanted “Hail Satan.” 
 
 Members of the Satanic Temple of Detroit viewed the unveiling as a victory; “a celebration of a group effort” that has taken several years to complete. 
 
 Not all Detroit residents were as pleased. The statue has been a point of contention in the Motor City for months, and demonstrations against it continued up until the last minute. Around 100 protesters turned out Saturday afternoon to pray and denounce the monument, calling it “disrespectful” to other religions. 
 
 Jex Blackmore, the director of the Satanic Temple of Detroit, says this backlash is the product of years of “deep misunderstanding” about Satanism. 
 
 “Satanism and the term ‘Satanic’ has been used a political tool to demonize individuals who have rebelled against systems of authority and power,” Blackmore said in a heated segment of WJBK-TV’s “Let it Rip.” 
 
 The Satanic Temple of Detroit is non-theistic and does not celebrate the Judeo-Christian representation of Satan, Blackmore said. The group’s website defines Satan as “a symbol of man’s inherent nature, representative of the eternal rebel, enlightened inquiry and personal freedom rather than a supernatural deity or being.” 
 
 The Temple originally applied for the statue to be installed in 2012 near a Ten Commandments monument on the Oklahoma State Capitol grounds. After that application was denied, the Temple decided on Detroit, where the Satanic Temple is said to have a stronger-than-average congregation. 
 
 Blackmore said Saturday that temple members planned to transport the sculpture to Arkansas, where the governor recently signed a bill authorizing a Ten Commandments monument on the State Capitol's grounds. 
 
 This isn’t the Satanic Temple of Detroit’s first controversial demonstration. Last Christmas, the organization set up a “Snaketivity” scene outside the Michigan State Capitol in support of LGBT rights. 
 
 Blackmore said in an interview with MLive that these efforts are often seen as “trolling” for shock value. But she insists this is not the case. 
 
 “We are interested in positive and effective change,” Blackmore said. “And we're interested in positive conversation.” 
 
 Rev. David Bullock of the Greater St. Matthew Baptist Church expressed skepticism of Blackmore's stated intentions, instead saying that the statue makes a mockery of other religions. 
 
 “The statue is supposed to create a dialogue. Well, statues don’t talk. If you want to have a dialogue with other faiths, why not send an email in advance or knock on the door?” Rev. Bullock argued on “Let it Rip.” “It’s not creating a dialogue at all. It’s actually polarizing a large number of folks in the city of Detroit." 
 
 A large number of folks, maybe – but not all. Minister Todd Sanders of Strictly Biblical Bible Teaching Ministries says he believes the situation could be a great educational experience. 
 
 “The church can benefit from this because we can view this as an opportunity to get at the truth in terms of what the Satanic Temple believes,” Sanders told WWJ-TV. “I don’t think it’s anything we should be afraid of at all.” 
 
 The monument is the handiwork of Mark Porter, a New York City-based sculptor. He admitted to finding the task creepy at first, but growing more comfortable as time went on. 
 
 "I started thinking about it: Why don't I like it?" Porter said to the Detroit Free Press. "And then after looking at that every day for a year, it's just whatever. It could be Mickey Mouse.” ||||| In this July 25, 2015, photo Alter boys Joseph Follbaum, left, and John Paul Sebastian, both 9 and of Livonia, Mich., kneel as they pray during Mass at Saint Joseph Catholic Church in Detroit. The Detroit... (Associated Press) 
 
 DETROIT (AP) — Several hundred people attended a Mass at a Detroit Catholic church to protest an 8½-foot-tall bronze statue of Satan that crowds of people also lined up to see. 
 
 Satanic Temple had said it would unveil the statue Saturday at a Detroit location that only people with tickets would know. Hundreds lined up Saturday evening to get the tickets as Christian protesters rallied nearby. 
 
 Earlier Saturday, The Detroit News says 200-250 people attended Mass at St. Joseph Church in a protest against the Satanic event. 
 
 The group had hoped to place the statue at the state Capitol in Oklahoma City until Oklahoma's Supreme Court banned religious displays on Capitol grounds. 
 
 The Satanic Temple now says it wants to erect it outside Arkansas' statehouse, where a Ten Commandments monument also is planned.