Source: Multi-News

In an interview with "CBS This Morning" co-host Gayle King, Dylan Farrow detailed the alleged sexual abuse by her adoptive father, actor and director Woody Allen. At the age of 7, Dylan told her mother, actress Mia Farrow, that Allen had molested her. 
 
 Allen has always denied the allegations and has never been charged with a crime. Dylan Farrow has stood by her story for more than two decades. She first went public with her accusations in 2014 with an open letter in the New York Times. 
 
 Below is Allen's full response to "CBS This Morning": 
 
 "When this claim was first made more than 25 years ago, it was thoroughly investigated by both the Child Sexual Abuse Clinic of the Yale-New Haven Hospital and New York State Child Welfare. They both did so for many months and independently concluded that no molestation had ever taken place. Instead, they found it likely a vulnerable child had been coached to tell the story by her angry mother during a contentious breakup. 
 
 Dylan's older brother Moses has said that he witnessed their mother doing exactly that – relentlessly coaching Dylan, trying to drum into her that her father was a dangerous sexual predator. It seems to have worked – and, sadly, I'm sure Dylan truly believes what she says. 
 
 But even though the Farrow family is cynically using the opportunity afforded by the Time's Up movement to repeat this discredited allegation, that doesn't make it any more true today than it was in the past. I never molested my daughter – as all investigations concluded a quarter of a century ago." ||||| A wave of celebrities has begun speaking out against Woody Allen, more than two decades after his adopted daughter Dylan Farrow alleged that he molested her, which Allen has long denied. 
 
 In December, Farrow wrote an op-ed in the Los Angeles Times asking why actors who spoke out against other Hollywood men in the #MeToo movement continued to support Allen. In the days since the piece was published, Mira Sorvino and Greta Gerwig expressed regret for working with Allen. Rebecca Hall and Timothée Chalamet said they would donate their salaries from working on Allen’s films to anti-sexual violence organizations. 
 
 Not everyone who has worked with Allen has condemned him. Alec Baldwin, who has appeared in three of Allen’s films, said in a Jan. 16 tweet that the “renunciation” of Allen is “unfair and sad.” 
 
 Allen has long denied Farrow’s allegation, and he has never been charged with a crime. The allegations were first made in 1992. In 2014, after Allen received a lifetime achievement award at the Golden Globes, Farrow detailed the allegations in an open letter in the New York Times. Allen again denied the allegations in an op-ed published in the Times in 2014. 
 
 “Of course, I did not molest Dylan,” Allen wrote. “No one wants to discourage abuse victims from speaking out, but one must bear in mind that sometimes there are people who are falsely accused and that is also a terribly destructive thing.” 
 
 In response to an inquiry from TIME about Farrow’s allegations and Allen’s response to celebrities speaking out against him, a spokesperson for Allen did not immediately comment but said a statement would be issued on Thursday. Farrow will give her first television interview about the allegation on CBS This Morning on Thursday as well. 
 
 “Why shouldn’t I be angry? Why shouldn’t I be hurt? Why shouldn’t I feel some sort of — outrage that after all these years being ignored and disbelieved and tossed aside?” Farrow told CBS This Morning. “All I can do is speak my truth and hope that someone will believe me instead of just hearing.” 
 
 Here’s a list of actors who have worked with Allen and spoken out against him since allegations against Harvey Weinstein sparked the #MeToo movement last fall. TIME will continue to update this list. 
 
 Rachel Brosnahan 
 
 Actress Rachel Brosnahan attends the 23rd Annual Critics' Choice Awards at Barker Hangar on January 11, 2018 in Santa Monica, California. Axelle/Bauer-Griffin—FilmMagic 
 
 Brosnahan, who currently stars in Amazon’s The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel, said in an interview with The Hollywood Reporter published Jan. 17 that she regrets working with Allen on his 2016 limited Amazon series Crisis in Six Scenes. 
 
 “Look, I had a great experience working on that project,” Brosnahan said. “Honestly, it’s the decision that I have made in my life that is the most inconsistent with everything I stand for and believe in, both publicly and privately. And while I can’t take it back, it’s important to me, moving forward, to make decisions that better reflect the things that I value and my worldview.” 
 
 Timothée Chalamet 
 
 Timothee Chalamet attends the 43rd Annual Los Angeles Film Critics Association Awards on January 13, 2018 in Los Angeles, California. (Photo by Jon Kopaloff/FilmMagic) Jon Kopaloff—FilmMagic 
 
 The Call Me By Your Name star announced in a Jan. 15 Instagram post that he would donate his salary from an upcoming film directed by Allen to anti-sexual assault organization RAINN, the LGBT Center in New York and Time’s Up, an anti-harassment movement launched by Hollywood women. Chalamet appeared in Allen’s upcoming film A Rainy Day in New York. 
 
 “I am learning that a good role isn’t the only criteria for accepting a job — that has become much clearer to me in the past few months, having witnessed the birth of a powerful movement intent on ending injustice, inequality and above all, silence,” Chalemet said. “I want to be worthy of standing shoulder to shoulder with the brave artists who are fighting for all people to be treated with the respect and dignity they deserve.” 
 
 Farrow responded in a tweet: “Glad to see this.” 
 
 Natalie Portman 
 
 Actor Natalie Portman celebrates The 75th Annual Golden Globe Awards with Moet & Chandon at The Beverly Hilton Hotel on January 7, 2018 in Beverly Hills, California. Michael Kovac—Getty Images 
 
 In an interview with Oprah on CBS This Morning, Portman, one of the woman involved in the Time’s Up initiative, said that she believes Farrow. Portman previously appeared in Allen’s 1996 film, Everyone Says I Love You. 
 
 “I believe Dylan,” Portman said. “I would want to say that: ‘I believe you, Dylan.'” 
 
 Rebecca Hall 
 
 Rebecca Hall attends Through Her Lens: The Tribeca Chanel Women's Filmmaker Program Luncheon at Locanda Verde on October 17, 2017 in New York City. (Photo by Roy Rochlin/FilmMagic) Roy Rochlin—FilmMagic 
 
 Hall, who will appear with Chalamet in A Rainy Day in New York, announced in an Instagram post on Jan. 12 that she would donate her salary from the film to Time’s Up. In her post, Hall said that she was “grateful” that Allen had given her one of her first big roles — in his 2008 film Vicky Christina Barcelona — but said she’s been reflecting on Farrow’s allegations in recent weeks. 
 
 “After reading and re-reading Dylan Farrow’s statements of a few days ago and going back and reading the older ones – I see, not only how complicated this matter is, but that my actions have made another woman feel silenced and dismissed,” Hall wrote. “That is not something that sits easily with me in the current or indeed any moment, and I am profoundly sorry.” 
 
 Mira Sorvino 
 
 Actress Mira Sorvino attends the premiere of "Mothers and Daughters" at The London on April 28, 2016 in West Hollywood, California. Jason LaVeris—FilmMagic 
 
 Sorvino, who won an Academy Award for her role in Allen’s 1995 film Mighty Aphrodite, apologized to Farrow in an open letter published on HuffPost on Jan. 10. 
 
 “I am so sorry, Dylan,” wrote Sorvino, one of the woman who accused Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein of sexual harassment. “I cannot begin to imagine how you have felt, all these years as you watched someone you called out as having hurt you as a child, a vulnerable little girl in his care, be lauded again and again, including by me and countless others in Hollywood who praised him and ignored you.” 
 
 Greta Gerwig 
 
 Actress Greta Gerwig attends The 11th Annual CFDA/Vogue Fashion Fund Awards at Spring Studios on November 3, 2014 in New York City. Gary Gershoff—WireImage 
 
 In an interview with the New York Times published on Jan. 9, the Lady Bird director said she regretted working with Allen in his 2012 film To Rome With Love. 
 
 “If I had known then what I know now, I would not have acted in the film. I have not worked for him again, and I will not work for him again,” Gerwig said. “Dylan Farrow… made me realize that I increased another woman’s pain, and I was heartbroken by that realization.” 
 
 David Krumholtz 
 
 Actor David Krumholtz of the television show Living Biblically speaks onstage during the CBS/Showtime portion of the 2018 Winter Television Critics Association Press Tour at The Langham Huntington, Pasadena on January 6, 2018 in Pasadena, California. (Photo by Frederick M. Brown/Getty Images) Frederick M. Brown—Getty Images 
 
 Krumholtz, who appeared in Allen’s 2017 film Wonder Wheel, said in a Jan. 5 tweet that he regrets working with Allen. 
 
 “It’s one of my most heartbreaking mistakes,” said Krumholtz, known for his roles in The Deuce and 10 Things I Hate About You. “We can no longer let these men represent us in entertainment, politics or any other realm. They are beneath real men.” 
 
 Ellen Page 
 
 LOS ANGELES, CA - SEPTEMBER 27: Actress Ellen Page attends the premiere of "Flatliners" at The Theatre at Ace Hotel on September 27, 2017 in Los Angeles, California. (Photo by Jason LaVeris/FilmMagic) Jason LaVeris—FilmMagic 
 
 In a Facebook post on Nov. 10, Page said working on Allen’s 2012 film To Rome With Love was “the biggest regret of my career.” 
 
 “I am ashamed I did this,” Page wrote. “I had yet to find my voice and was not who I am now and felt pressured, because ‘of course you have to say yes to this Woody Allen film.’ Ultimately, however, it is my choice what films I decide to do and I made the wrong choice.” 
 
 Griffin Newman 
 
 Griffin Newman attends Amazon Prime Video's The Tick New York Comic Con 2017 - Press Room at The Jacob K. Javits Convention Center on October 7, 2017 in New York City. (Photo by Todd Williamson/Getty Images for Amazon) Todd Williamson—Getty Images for Amazon 
 
 Newman, who has a small role in Allen’s upcoming film A Rainy Day in New York, said in a series of tweets on Oct. 14 — days after the allegations against Weinstein broke — that he believes Woody Allen is guilty. He said he donated his salary from the film to RAINN. ||||| Only on "CBS This Morning," Dylan Farrow is speaking candidly for the first time on television about her sexual assault allegations against her adoptive father, actor and director Woody Allen. At the age of seven, Farrow told her mother, actress Mia Farrow, that Allen had molested her. 
 
 Allen has always denied the allegations. 
 
 Farrow has stood by her story for more than two decades. She first went public in 2014 with an open letter in the New York Times. Now, she's sharing her story to "CBS This Morning" co-host Gayle King who spoke with her at Farrow's Connecticut home. 
 
 Some of the details she described are graphic. 
 
 DYLAN FARROW: I want to show my face and tell my story. … I want to speak out. Literally. 
 
 Dylan Farrow shares her story with "CBS This Morning" co-host Gayle King CBS News 
 
 At 32, Dylan Farrow has been married for almost eight years. She's the mother of a 16-month-old girl. And she's still carrying the emotional scars she says she got at the hands of her father. 
 
 FARROW: I loved my father. I respected him. He was my hero. And that doesn't obviously take away from what he did. But it does make the betrayal and the hurt that much more intense. 
 
 GAYLE KING: Let's go to August 4, 1992. And if you could tell us what happened that day. 
 
 FARROW: I was taken to a small attic crawl space in my mother's country house in Connecticut by my father. He instructed me to lay down on my stomach and play with my brother's toy train that was set up. And he sat behind me in the doorway, and as I played with the toy train, I was sexually assaulted… As a 7-year-old I would say, I would have said he touched my private parts. 
 
 KING: Mmhmm. Okay 
 
 FARROW: Which I did say. 
 
 KING: Alright. Alright. 
 
 FARROW: As a 32-year-old, he touched my labia and my vulva with his finger. 
 
 KING: Where was your mother? 
 
 FARROW: She went shopping that day. 
 
 KING: And then after you told her, what happened? 
 
 FARROW: She was upset. … My first impulse was that I had done something wrong. 
 
 Mia Farrow took Dylan to the pediatrician, but when the doctor asked her where she had been touched, the little girl pointed to her shoulder. 
 
 FARROW: She said, "Why didn't you tell the doctor what you told me?" And I told her that I was embarrassed. And then we went back in. 
 
 KING: You went back in and then you told him. 
 
 FARROW: And I told the doctor. 
 
 KING: The same thing that you had told your mother. 
 
 FARROW: Yes. 
 
 (L to R) Actress Mia Farrow, son Satchel, Woody Allen, daughter Dylan David Mcgough/DMI/The LIFE Picture Collection/Getty Images 
 
 Allen had suggested that Dylan changed her story because she had been coached by her mother. Months earlier, Mia had found in his apartment nude pictures of her daughter, Soon-Yi, whom she had adopted during an earlier marriage. Allen confessed to an affair with Soon-Yi. The two remain a couple to this day, married for more than 20 years. 
 
 KING: You could see why he might make that claim. He would say that she was filled with rage after his affair with Soon-Yi had been discovered, and that she was out for revenge and full of rage. 
 
 FARROW: And what I don't understand is how is this crazy story of me being brainwashed and coached more believable than what I'm saying about being sexually assaulted by my father? 
 
 KING: Because your mother was very angry, so that she would try to coach you, and try to get you to turn against your father. 
 
 FARROW: Except every step of the way, my mother has only encouraged me to tell the truth. She has never coached me. 
 
 KING: I wanted to play a clip from "60 Minutes." An interview that he did at the time where he was asked about that incident. Are you okay with looking at it? You're ok? 
 
 FARROW: [Nods] Mmhmm. 
 
 "60 MINUTES" INTERVIEW WITH ALLEN: Isn't it illogical that I'm going to at the height of a very bitter acrimonious custody fight, drive up to Connecticut where nobody likes me and I'm in house full of enemies – I mean Mia was so enraged at me and she had gotten all the kids to be angry at me – that I'm going to drive up there and suddenly on visitation, pick this moment in my life to become a child molester. It's just, it's just incredible. I could if I wanted to be a child molester, I had many opportunities in the past. I could have quietly made a custody settlement with Mia in some way and done it in the future. You know, it's so insane. 
 
 KING: What do you say to that? 
 
 FARROW: [Crying] I'm really sorry. 
 
 KING: Don't apologize, don't apologize. 
 
 FARROW: I thought I could handle it. I – 
 
 KING: Are you crying because of what he said or seeing him? What is upsetting you? 
 
 FARROW: He's lying and he's been lying for so long. And it is difficult for me to see him and to hear his voice. I'm sorry. 
 
 Allen had adopted Dylan and her 13-year-old brother, Moses, the previous December. The couple also had a younger son, Ronan. But as Mia Farrow's boyfriend, Allen had been a part of Dylan's life since she was a baby. Dylan says that the incident in the attic wasn't the only time his behavior had been inappropriate. 
 
 KING: What would he do? 
 
 FARROW: He would follow me around. He was always touching me, cuddling me and if I ever said, you know, like I want to go off by myself, he wouldn't let me. 
 
 KING: Some could say that's a very doting and loving father. 
 
 FARROW: Except he wasn't this way with Ronan. 
 
 KING: What else would he do? 
 
 FARROW: He often asked me to get into bed with him when he had only his underwear on and sometimes when only I had my underwear on. 
 
 Woody Allen was never charged with a crime in this case. Both New York state child welfare investigators and a report by the Yale New Haven hospital found that the abuse did not happen. The Connecticut state prosecutor on the case, Frank Maco, questioned the Yale New Haven report's credibility saying there was probable cause to charge Allen but he thought Dylan was too fragile to face a celebrity trial. 
 
 
 
 KING: Do you wish that they would have gone ahead and filed the charges because then you would have had to taken the stand? 
 
 FARROW: You know, honestly yes. I do wish that they had, you know, even if I'm just speaking in retrospect. I was already traumatized. … Here's the thing. I mean, outside of a court of law, we do know what happened in the attic on that day. I just told you. 
 
 We reached out to the former Connecticut prosecutor, Frank Maco. He told us that in his experience, "There was no manipulation by Mia Farrow." He adds nothing in the state police investigation indicated that Farrow was in any way being controlled or manipulated. 
 
 "When this claim was first made more than 25 years ago, it was thoroughly investigated by both the Child Sexual Abuse Clinic of the Yale-New Haven Hospital and New York State Child Welfare. They both did so for many months and independently concluded that no molestation had ever taken place. Instead, they found it likely a vulnerable child had been coached to tell the story by her angry mother during a contentious breakup. 
 
 "Dylan's older brother Moses has said that he witnessed their mother doing exactly that – relentlessly coaching Dylan, trying to drum into her that her father was a dangerous sexual predator. It seems to have worked – and, sadly, I'm sure Dylan truly believes what she says. 
 
 "But even though the Farrow family is cynically using the opportunity afforded by the Time's Up movement to repeat this discredited allegation, that doesn't make it any more true today than it was in the past. I never molested my daughter – as all investigations concluded a quarter of a century ago." 
 
 Dylan Farrow on Time's Up, actors who work with Woody Allen 
 
 Farrow is also speaking up to have her voice included in the Time's Up and #MeToo conversations. Over the past two weeks, several celebrities have voiced their support for Dylan, including actress Natalie Portman. 
 
 This week, Timothée Chalamet announced he's donating his entire salary from his work in an upcoming Woody Allen movie to three charities that fight sexual abuse and harassment, including Time's Up. He wrote on Instagram: "I want to be worthy of standing shoulder to shoulder with the brave artists who are fighting for all people to be treated with the respect and dignity they deserve." 
 
 In an interview on "CBS Sunday Morning," Portman said, "I believe Dylan. I would want to say that. I believe you, Dylan." 
 
 Dylan was visibly moved by seeing the support from Portman. 
 
 FARROW: Now I'm going to start crying but, wow. 
 
 She's been searching for that acknowledgement, most of her life. 
 
 FARROW: With so much silence being broken by so many brave people against so many high profile people, I felt it was important to add my story to theirs because it's something I've struggled with for a long time and it was….It was very momentous for me to see this conversation finally carried into a public setting. 
 
 As the #MeToo movement continues, Dylan took to social media to call out celebrities who have starred in Woody Allen's films. 
 
 KING: Are you angry with the people, with the celebrities that are starring in his movies, that hold him in high regard and continue to compliment him? 
 
 FARROW: I'm not angry with them. I hope that, you know, especially since so many of them have been vocal advocates of this Me Too and Time's Up movement that, um, they can acknowledge their complicity and maybe hold themselves accountable to how they have perpetuated this culture of – of silence in their industry. 
 
 KING: And how are they complicit? 
 
 FARROW: Because I have been saying this – I have been repeating my accusations unaltered for over 20 years and I have been systematically shut down, ignored or discredited. If they can't acknowledge the accusations of one survivor's how are they going to stand for all of us? 
 
 KING: People say it's a family matter. It was many years ago. I don't really know the details of this case. 
 
 FARROW: So find out. I mean, it's really like I said, it's so easy in this day and age. It's a family matter but here's another thing. I am a real person and I've been struggling, coping on my good days, with the aftershocks of being sexually assaulted as a small child and that's real. And that matters. 
 
 KING: How has this affected your life? 
 
 FARROW: It's affected every part of my life. You know, growing up, and like I said, I pushed it to the side, I tried to pretend or tried to convince myself that this was something moving forward that I did not need to bring with me even though it came anyway. It's impacted everything. 
 
 Married and a mother to a 16-month-old daughter, Dylan is an advocate for victims of sexual abuse. 
 
 FARROW: I have a wonderful husband and I have this amazing little girl now. 
 
 KING: So what will you tell her when the time comes? What will you tell her about how to be in this world? 
 
 FARROW: That if she was ever in a position that she's not helpless. Because one of the things I remember very clearly as a small child is this feeling of helplessness.