Source: Multi-News

The Education Department drastically underestimated the cost of the government's income-driven repayment plans for student loans in its original estimates, the Government Accountability Office said in a highly critical report Wednesday. 
 
 The GAO report finds that estimates of the cost to the government of income-driven repayment plans -- which eventually discharge a student's remaining debt after 20 years or more of payments -- has jumped from $28 billion to $53 billion for student loans issued from 2009 to 2016. And it found that nearly a third of student loan debt expected to be repaid via income-driven repayments ($108 billion) will be forgiven by the federal government through programs such as Public Service Loan Forgiveness. 
 
 Observers of federal financial aid policy said those numbers -- and the apparent inability of the department to estimate the cost of student loan programs -- could provide new ammunition to Republican lawmakers looking to target expensive student aid programs to rein in costs, if not drastically downsize the department itself. The GAO investigated the costs of the income-driven repayment program at the request of Wyoming Republican Mike Enzi, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. 
 
 The Obama administration made enrolling student loan borrowers in income-driven repayment plans a major tool for assisting borrowers struggling with student loan debt. The original income-driven repayment program predated the administration, but the Obama Department of Education oversaw the addition of several new, more generous repayment programs. And it ramped up efforts to enroll student borrowers in those programs as total outstanding loan debt ballooned in recent years. 
 
 On the campaign trail, President-elect Donald Trump spoke favorably about income-driven repayment plans, saying in one speech that “students should not be asked to pay more on their loans than they can afford.” He proposed in a speech a repayment program that would be even more generous than the programs already available to student loan borrowers. 
 
 Data released by the Department of Education this year indicated that those programs have seen steady increases in enrollment. Almost 4.6 million federal direct borrowers had enrolled in income-driven repayment plans by December 2015 -- up 48 percent from 2014 and 140 percent from 2013. As of June, 5.3 million borrowers had enrolled in one of those plans. 
 
 But according to the GAO’s report, the cost of each successive loan cohort has been greater than the one that preceded it since 2012. And the fiscal 2017 cohort of student loans is expected to carry a cost five times that of the 2012 cohort. 
 
 The higher-than-expected costs of income-driven repayment are a result of multiple flaws in the cost estimate methods used by the department, according to the report: 
 
 The department assumed no existing student borrowers would switch to income-driven plans. 
 
 Until 2015, the department assumed no borrowers of Graduate PLUS loans, which are uncapped, would switch to income-driven plans. 
 
 The department’s estimates assumed no growth in enrollment, even as the Obama administration was seeking to enroll two million additional borrowers in the plans. 
 
 The GAO concludes that the department has consistently underestimated the value of subsidies going to income-driven repayment plans in each year. It also reports that the cost estimates used by the Department of Education lack appropriate transparency. 
 
 Alexander Holt, a policy analyst with the education policy program at New America, said the report showed the department has no business being involved in budgeting the repayment program. 
 
 “This is insane incompetence,” he said. “If you go through the report, there are just basic things that they missed or that they didn’t do.” 
 
 Jason Delisle, a resident fellow who specializes in higher ed finance at the American Enterprise Institute, said the report was a vote of no confidence in the department’s abilities to estimate what income-driven repayment will cost taxpayers. 
 
 “Really what the GAO is saying is that the Obama administration’s expansion of this program has been done without good information about the effects,” Delisle said. 
 
 Under Secretary of Education Ted Mitchell said income-driven repayment plans are helping millions of borrowers successfully manage loan repayment, particularly those who find standard repayment challenging. 
 
 “IDR plans also help keep borrowers from financial strain and reduce default, which can wreak havoc on struggling families' credit rating and ability to get back on their feet,” Mitchell said in a statement. “The Department of Education has proposed several common-sense reforms that would reduce costs by about $49 billion over 10 years, and taken action to protect students and taxpayers from colleges that are failing students by leaving them with unaffordable debt and poor employment outcomes, ensuring they either improve or risk losing access to the federal student aid programs.” 
 
 The Department of Education oversees a $1.3 trillion loan portfolio and $150 billion annually in new loans. Jessica Thompson, the policy and research director at the Institute for College Access and Success, said it was important to put the numbers in the report in that context. Thompson said income-driven repayment programs were designed to be a safety net for students who couldn’t repay their loan debt after many years. She also said the GAO report showed important fixes that the Department of Education could make in its cost estimates. 
 
 Policy experts have criticized the administration’s changes to the program for making income-driven plans more generous to graduate student borrowers, who have some of the highest volumes of student loan debt but are best positioned to pay off their student loans. Income-driven plans are the basis for Public Service Loan Forgiveness, which goes into effect next year. And a large proportion of loan debt being repaid through income-driven plans is driven by the Graduate PLUS program or graduate Stafford loans, Delisle said. 
 
 It’s possible that Republican lawmakers looking to tackle the costs associated with the programs could take steps like capping the amount of loan debt that can be taken out for graduate studies, eliminating Public Service Loan Forgiveness or otherwise limiting student borrowing. 
 
 A spokeswoman for Tennessee Republican Senator Lamar Alexander, chairman of the Senate education committee, said the GAO report raises concerns about the costs of income-driven repayment programs. 
 
 “In the upcoming Higher Education Act reauthorization, Senator Alexander looks forward to working with Senator Enzi and committee Republicans and Democrats on re-evaluating, simplifying and better targeting these repayment plans to reduce these costs and better protect the taxpayer, while still providing a manageable repayment option for borrowers,” the spokeswoman said. ||||| WASHINGTON—The federal government is on track to forgive at least $108 billion in student debt in coming years, as more and more borrowers seek help in paying down their loans, leading to lower revenues for the nation’s program to finance higher education. 
 
 The Government Accountability Office disclosed the sum Wednesday in a report to Congress which for the first time projected the full costs of programs that set borrowers’ monthly payments as a share of their earnings and eventually forgive portions of their debt. 
 
 The GAO report also sharply criticized the government’s accounting methods for its $1.26 trillion student-loan portfolio, pointing to flaws that have led it to alter projected revenues significantly over the years. The government says it still expects the program to generate a profit over the long term, but it has repeatedly trimmed expectations for revenues. 
 
 President Barack Obama has promoted income-driven repayment plans—passed by Congress in the 1990s and 2000s—to stem a sharp rise in borrowers defaulting on their loans since the recession. Enrollment in such plans has more than tripled over the past three years to 5.3 million borrowers, who owe roughly $269 billion, according to Education Department statistics cited by the GAO. 
 
 A new federal report shows that the government is expected to forgive at least $108 billion in student debt in the coming years. The relief is part of an Obama administration plan to help borrowers, but is proving costly. WSJ's Lee Hawkins explains. 
 
 Ted Mitchell, undersecretary at the Education Department, said such programs “are helping millions of borrowers successfully manage loan repayment, particularly those for whom standard repayment may prove challenging.” 
 
 He added that the administration has proposed changes to reduce costs. Mr. Obama, for example, has called for capping how much debt public-service workers can have forgiven. 
 
 The most generous version of income-driven repayments caps a borrower’s monthly payment at 10% of discretionary income, which is defined as adjusted gross income above 150% of the poverty level. 
 
 That formula typically lowers monthly payments of borrowers by hundreds of dollars. Public-service workers—those employed by a government agency or at most nonprofits—have balances forgiven after 10 years, tax-free. Private-sector workers have balances forgiven in 20 or 25 years, with the forgiven amount taxed as ordinary income. 
 
 President-elect Donald Trump said during his campaign he supported the idea of helping student-loan borrowers. He has proposed setting payments at 12.5% of income and forgiving balances after 15 years. He has also suggested winding down the federal student loan program and shifting lending to the private sector. 
 
 Growing evidence suggests many of the most hard-pressed borrowers—college dropouts who owe less than $10,000—aren’t taking advantage of the programs, while workers with graduate degrees, such as doctors and lawyers who don’t necessarily need help, are. 
 
 The figures that the GAO cites suggest the average balance of borrowers in income-driven repayment plans stands at roughly $51,000. That sum suggests a disproportionate share of those benefiting from the plans are graduate-degree holders. Undergraduate borrowers owe about $30,000, on average, upon graduation, other research shows, and the government caps lifetime borrowing from federal programs for undergraduates at $57,500. It doesn’t limit how much grad students can borrow. And graduate-degree holders typically have higher incomes and have low rates of unemployment, Labor Department data show. 
 
 There are still about 8 million Americans in default on their student loans, and the number of defaults among borrowers who recently left school has come down only slowly. 
 
 Meanwhile, Senate Budget Committee Chairman Mike Enzi (R., Wyo.), who ordered the GAO study, has criticized the Obama administration’s use of executive authority to sweeten terms of the repayment plans, which he said would add to the national debt. 
 
 “This Administration has been manipulating the terms of the student loan program without the consent of Congress, while shirking its statutory duty to carefully assess the cost impact of those changes,” Mr. Enzi said in a statement, adding that he was considering legislation to force changes in the government’s accounting methods. 
 
 Some outside academics say it is increasingly likely that the projected surpluses of the federal student loan portfolio—which has more than doubled over the past decade—won’t materialize. “I’m not at all confident that the federal government will end up making money on student loans,” said Robert Kelchen, an assistant professor of higher education at Seton Hall University. 
 
 In addition to debt forgiveness under income-driven repayment programs, the administration is also moving to forgive loans for borrowers who can show they were lured to enroll at schools—mostly for-profit colleges—that used deceptive advertising. 
 
 Students at the Rutgers University graduation ceremonies in Piscataway, N.J., in May. Photo: Mel Evans/Associated Press 
 
 Income-driven repayment plans are also causing concern that as more students become aware of the benefits, they will become less sensitive to tuition increases, enabling universities continually to raise tuition ultimately at taxpayer expense. Higher education costs have increased by an average of 5.2% a year in the past decade, far faster than inflation, which has been running at under 2%. 
 
 And some borrowers with graduate-school loans are refinancing their debt at lower interest rates with private lenders such as SoFi. Congress, through legislation, has set higher interest rates for grad students than undergrads, to ensure the programs don’t lose money. When private lenders pick off those borrowers, the surpluses dwindle. 
 
 The GAO estimates $137 billion owed under income-driven repayments won’t be repaid. Most of it—the $108 billion disclosed Wednesday—would be forgiven because of borrowers fulfilling their obligations under the plans. The other $29 billion will be written off because of disability or death, the GAO projects, the only other circumstances under which the government takes a loan off its books. The government can garnish wages and Social Security checks for those in default. 
 
 And that $108 billion only covers loans made through the current fiscal year. The overall sum could continue to grow alongside enrollment increases. The GAO said it could take 40 years to know the full costs of the programs. 
 
 Still, supporters say the plans offer a lifeline to borrowers who are unemployed or earning little, while the Obama administration has credited the programs with leading to a reduction in the number of new graduates defaulting on their loans. 
 
 Supporters point out that under current law, any amount forgiven would be taxed as ordinary income for private-sector workers, limiting the benefits for individuals. Public-sector workers aren’t taxed on forgiveness. 
 
 The GAO report also criticizes how the Education Department has produced budget estimates for the loan program. For example, it said the department has failed to account for inflation when estimating borrowers’ future earnings. And it said the agency failed to account for further increases in enrollment in income-driven repayment plans. 
 
 Write to Josh Mitchell at joshua.mitchell@wsj.com 
 
 Corrections & Amplifications: 
 
 Borrowers enrolled in plans that forgive student debt owe an average of about $51,000 and a combined $269 billion, according to Education Department statistics cited by the Government Accountability Office. An earlier version of this article incorrectly said these borrowers owed an average $67,000 and a combined $355 billion. (Dec. 2, 2016) ||||| 
 
 The White House and the Mall seen from the Hay-Adams Hotel in Washington. (Oliver Contreras for The Washington Post) 
 
 The price tag on a popular student loan repayment program is far larger than Education Department estimates, the Government Accountability Office said Wednesday. The GAO pegged the true cost at about $108 billion and called the Education Department’s accounting unreliable. 
 
 [What you need to know about Obama’s latest student loan plan before enrolling] 
 
 To help people manage their student loans, the Obama administration has expanded programs that cap monthly payments to a percentage of earnings and eventually forgives the balance. Enrollment in these income-driven repayment plans is soaring and so is the cost, but the government’s budget estimates are not keeping pace, an oversight that fuels criticism of a federal policy that conservatives say has become far too expensive. 
 
 Current budget estimates for income-driven plans are more than double what was originally expected for loans made in fiscal 2009 through 2016, climbing from $25 billion to $53 billion, according to the GAO report. The growth is primarily a result of the rising volume of loans in the plans, but researchers at the GAO say faulty projections from education officials may cause costs to be over- or understated by billions of dollars. 
 
 [Lowering student debt payments is costing taxpayers billions of dollars] 
 
 “Some uncertainty is unavoidable when anticipating long-term loan costs,” the GAO wrote, “but we found numerous shortcomings in Education’s estimation approach and quality control practices that call into question the reliability of its budget estimates and affect the quality of information Congress has to make informed budget decisions.” 
 
 The report takes issue with education officials’ assumption that borrowers’ incomes will not grow with inflation, which could lower estimated costs by more than $17 billion. The model also fails to account for people switching in or out of the plans in the future, which frequently happens when they have to certify their income to remain in the program each year. 
 
 In a letter to the GAO, Amy McIntosh, a deputy assistant secretary in the Education Department, said the agency has been working with Treasury to revise its estimates and agreed that there is room for improvement. The department in its annual budget report said the money being repaid through other student loan programs offsets some of the expense of the income-driven plans. 
 
 “The life cycle of a student loan is exceedingly complex, with a multitude of projection paths and outcomes,” McIntosh wrote. “We are constantly seeking to enhance and refine our cost estimation models.” 
 
 Still, she noted that the decisions made, and critiqued in the report, were “based on existing staff and system resources available, assessed impact and consideration for conservatism.” The observation calls into question whether the government agency is capable of managing a multibillion-dollar program that is projected to grow. 
 
 “Reading between the lines of the GAO report makes it sound like the Department of Education … has got one or two staff with a 30-year-old computer or maybe index cards trying to figure out costs,” said Jason Delisle, a resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative think tank. “You need to hire a firm that is skilled at estimating the value of financial securities to tell you what these loans are worth and what they’ll cost taxpayers.” 
 
 As it stands, there are 5.3 million people enrolled in an income-driven repayment plan with about $353 billion in outstanding student loans. Although the government has let people repay education debt based on their income for the past 20 years, few took advantage until the Obama administration expanded the number of options and eligibility. Plans are designed to prevent borrowers from defaulting on their loans and ruining their credit. 
 
 “This is a way that we can ensure that graduates are fulfilling their basic responsibility to repay the government for the money that they borrowed,” White House press secretary Josh Earnest told reporters Wednesday. “But we want to make sure that when students graduate, that they’re not saddled with so much debt that they’re essentially penalized financially for pursuing college education opportunities.” 
 
 The GAO estimates that $215 billion, or 61 percent of the debt in income-driven plans, will be paid in full. Another $108 billion will be forgiven, with the remaining $29 billion discharged because of death or disability. But those estimates are only for loans made from 1995 to 2017. As more people sign up, the cost of the program will soar. 
 
 “At a time when our nation is facing a mammoth national debt, the Department of Education has expanded a student loan program that will cost twice as much as originally estimated,” Senate Budget Committee Chairman Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), who requested the GAO study, said in a statement. “This administration has been manipulating the terms of the student loan program without the consent of Congress, while shirking its statutory duty to carefully assess the cost impact of those changes.” 
 
 Enzi said at the very least there needs to be greater transparency in the way education officials calculate costs, but his office said he is not calling for any major changes to the repayment plans at the moment. 
 
 Congressional Republicans have called President Obama’s expansion of the repayment program fiscally irresponsible and pushed for dialing back eligibility. Even Obama has proposed limiting forgiveness for graduate students. Yet President-elect Donald Trump has said he would lower the period of repayment, a move that will probably raise the cost for taxpayers. 
 
 [Trump just laid out a pretty radical student debt plan] 
 
 “As the Trump administration comes into power they need to take a measured approach that develops a program that is well targeted to the neediest borrowers,” said Michelle Asha Cooper, president of the Institute for Higher Education Policy. “Regardless of who’s in power, the issue of college affordability is a real problem, and while these plans are helpful, they are not a solution.” 
 
 Want to read more about the student loans? Check out these stories: 
 
 A guide to paying off your student loans 
 
 Student debt relief scams are on the rise. Here’s how this government official plans to stop it. 
 
 The Obama administration’s plan to lower the student debt payments of millions more Americans