Source: Multi-News


 
 Former Alabama chief justice and U.S. Senate candidate Roy Moore on Sept. 26, 2017. (Brynn Anderson/AP) 
 
 Roy Moore's Senate campaign was jolted by an allegation Thursday that he initiated sexual touching with a 14-year-old girl when he was 32. 
 
 Moore (R) has denied the allegations. Alabama state Auditor Jim Zeigler (R), though, is taking it a step further. In some rather remarkable and often nonsensical comments, the Moore supporter's argument isn't that Moore didn't do these things, but that even the conduct described in The Washington Post's report is a-okay with both him and the law. 
 
 Zeigler's comments came in an interview with the Washington Examiner. Let's break them down: 
 
 “There is nothing to see here,” Alabama State Auditor Jim Ziegler told the Washington Examiner. “The allegations are that a man in his early 30s dated teenage girls. Even the Washington Post report says that he never had sexual intercourse with any of the girls and never attempted sexual intercourse.” 
 
 The first problem here is that the allegation isn't just that Moore “dated” 14-year-old Leigh Corfman but, rather, that he removed her clothes and touched her, and guided her hand to touch his penis. Corfman says this was unwanted. 
 
 And regardless of whether this was consensual, this kind of activity would sure seem to be illegal. As The Post notes, Alabama law in 1979, as now, placed the age of consent at 16. It would be “sexual abuse in the second degree” for someone 19 or older to engage in sexual contact with someone younger than 16 but older than 12, and sexual contact is defined as the touching of sexual or intimate parts. 
 
 Here's more from Zeigler: 
 
 Moore never had “sexual intercourse” with the girl. Their relationship “happened almost 40 years ago.” And finally, “Roy Moore fell in love with one of the younger women.” Moore began dating his wife Kayla around this time, according to Ziegler. “He dated her. He married her, and they’ve been married about 35 years. They’re blessed with a wonderful marriage and his wife Kayla is 14 years younger than Moore.” 
 
 Moore's wife, Kayla, is indeed 14 years his junior, but the law is less concerned with age differences and more concerned with whether one of the parties is a minor who isn't able to consent. A 70-year-old and a 56-year-old is not the same thing, for example, as a 28-year-old and a 14-year-old. 
 
 And finally, the pièce de résistance: 
 
 “Take the Bible — Zachariah and Elizabeth, for instance. Zachariah was extremely old to marry Elizabeth and they became the parents of John the Baptist,” Ziegler says, choosing his words carefully before invoking Christ. “Also take Joseph and Mary. Mary was a teenager and Joseph was an adult carpenter. They became parents of Jesus.” “There’s just nothing immoral or illegal here,” Ziegler concluded. “Maybe just a little bit unusual.” 
 
 First, there are issues with Zeigler's Bible references. Both Zachariah and Elizabeth were elderly when John the Baptist was born; it wasn't that she was young and Zachariah was “extremely old.” 
 
 Second, comparing modern age-of-consent laws to biblical times seems to be a slippery slope. Many things from 2,000 years ago don't apply today. Girls were often betrothed early in their teenage years, for example. 
 
 And third, there is something called the virgin birth. Here is the definition of virgin. As The Post's Michelle Boorstein writes in her piece breaking this all down: 
 
 In the Bible, Mary is the mother of Jesus, and Joseph became her husband. Beliefs about the specific story of Joseph and Mary and Jesus’ birth vary widely in Christian history and across traditions. Mary is referred to in scripture as a virgin, but there is disagreement about what that means. Generally, however, Christians believe that Mary was a virgin when he was born. Joseph is usually referred to as Jesus’ “father” or a father figure. ... Multiple evangelical leaders slammed Ziegler. “Bringing Joseph and Mary into a modern-day molestation accusation, where a 32-year-old prosecutor is accused of molesting a 14-year-old girl, is simultaneously ridiculous and blasphemous,” said Ed Stetzer, a pastor and church consultant who chairs the Billy Graham Center of Church, Mission and Evangelism at Wheaton College. “Even those who followed ancient marriage customs, which we would not follow today, knew the difference between molesting and marriage.” 
 
 Further reading: "Alabama state official defends Roy Moore, citing Joseph and Mary: ‘They became parents of Jesus’" ||||| Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings. 
 
 / Updated By Chuck Todd, Mark Murray and Carrie Dann 
 
 First Read is your briefing from Meet the Press and the NBC Political Unit on the day's most important political stories and why they matter. 
 
 WASHINGTON — On Thursday morning, we told you that the December 12 Alabama Senate race was something you should put on your calendar, especially after Democrats’ big wins earlier in the week. But we had no idea what was going to happen just hours later: The Washington Post reported that a woman said Republican nominee Roy Moore initiated a sexual encounter with her when she was 14 and he was 32. 
 
 The news could fundamentally transform the political situation in Washington. If Moore loses next month — and we stress the word “if” — then the GOP’s Senate majority goes from 52-48 to 51-49. 
 
 Why is that important? For one thing, it makes it much more realistic for Democrats to capture control of the U.S. Senate in 2018. Democrats would need to win Arizona and Nevada (two races where they have at least a 50-50 shot of victory) and hold on to all of their vulnerable seats. That’s a tall order, of course, but it’s much easier than having to put a Texas or Tennessee on the map to win Senate control. Bottom line: If there’s a wave in 2018, Democrats will have an easier shot of having to flip two Senate seats instead of three to win back the Senate. 
 
 In addition, a 51-49 GOP majority in the Senate could imperil the Republican tax plan. Senate Republicans are already having to walk a fine line in placating Sens. Rand Paul (who opposes the tax increases in the GOP plan), Bob Corker (who’s worried about increasing the deficit) and Susan Collins (who is against some of the tax cuts for the wealthy). A 52-48 majority means Senate Republicans can afford to lose two GOP votes, assuming all Democrats oppose the legislation. But with a 51-49 majority, Republicans can lose only one GOP senator. 
 
 Now you might say that there’s no way (or little way) that a Republican could lose in Alabama, a state Trump won by a whopping 28 points in 2016. But consider: 
 
 Before yesterday, Moore’s lead was just in the high single digits or low double digits, according to the polls. That isn’t a bulletproof lead; 
 
 Moore has been a controversial figure in Alabama for more than a decade; 
 
 Democratic opponent Doug Jones has owned the TV airwaves for an entire month, with ads like this: “I can work with Republicans better than Roy Moore can work with anyone”; 
 
 And the race is a one-on-one special election that takes place two weeks before Christmas, so it will be a low-turnout affair. There is no other race on the ballot. 
 
 This isn’t to say that it’s a slam dunk that Moore loses after yesterday. But we’re not sure enough people realize how dangerous the political situation is for the GOP. 
 
 Could Alabama Republicans pull what New Jersey Democrats did in 2002? 
 
 And given the situation — as well as the facts that ballots have already been printed and that state law mandates that a candidate must withdraw 76 days before the election to be removed from the ballot (and we’re a month out now) — NBC’s Steve Kornacki reminds us of what happened in New Jersey in 2002: 
 
 “In 2002, New Jersey state law set a deadline of 51 days pre-election for a party to switch candidates, but incumbent Bob Torricelli, fresh off his reprimand by the Senate ethics committee and faced with collapsing poll numbers, dropped out 34 days before the vote. Democrats went to court to ask for a ballot switch anyway, and the state Supreme Court – regarded as one of the most liberal in the country – gave it to them. Republicans howled in protest and took it to the U.S. Supreme Court, which refused to hear the case. Frank Lautenberg then subbed in for Torricelli, and won the election easily.” 
 
 The lesson: A party that controls the local political power and the courts can change the rules. 
 
 But right now, it doesn’t seem like Moore is going to withdraw from the contest. "Judge Roy Moore has endured the most outlandish attacks on any candidate in the modern political arena, but this story in today’s Washington Post alleging sexual impropriety takes the cake," Moore campaign chair Bill Armistead said in statement. "National liberal organizations know their chosen candidate Doug Jones is in a death spiral, and this is their last ditch Hail Mary." 
 
 Jonah Goldberg: Saving Moore isn’t worth it for Republicans 
 
 Meanwhile, conservative writer Jonah Goldberg criticizes the Republicans who are defending Moore. “… I cannot grasp why so many people think it’s a good idea to stand by a man who, if elected, will serve as a negative campaign ad made flesh. I get the argument that it’s a ‘binary choice!’ But it’s a binary choice now, because a bunch of people who want to see the GOP burn down made it one.” 
 
 Goldberg adds, “In the long run, a Senator Moore would cost Republicans more seats than the one he might give them. He’d be an albatross for every elected Republican, including President Trump, who will be asked to take a side on every scene in the clown show Moore would bring to Washington. And every conservative who ever denounces a Democrat for immoral behavior or insane views will be asked, ‘Oh yeah, why did you support Roy Moore then?’ Saving Steve Bannon’s reputation as the leader of some (doomed) movement certainly isn’t worth it, not for the cost to the GOP not to mention your own souls.” 
 
 Want to understand why it appeared the GOP was racing for the Moore exits? Goldberg captures that. 
 
 Senate Republicans unveil their tax plan 
 
 Speaking of the GOP tax effort, Senate Republicans unveiled their plan yesterday, per NBC’s Alex Seitz-Wald, Benjy Sarlin and Leigh Ann Caldwell. “The Senate plan differs in some key ways from the version introduced by the House last week... The Senate bill maintains the current seven individual income-tax brackets, unlike the House's four, and lowers the top rate to 38.5 percent, while the House bill maintains it at 39.6 percent but applies it to higher income.” 
 
 “And unlike the House version, the Senate bill would fully repeal the deduction for state and local taxes, which has become a sticking point with GOP congressmen from high-tax states like New York and New Jersey, which tend to lean Democratic, whose constituents depend on that deduction.” 
 
 “The House included a deduction for the first $10,000 in property taxes to appease those members, but the Senate, which has fewer Republicans from such states, has no such provision in its bill. In the end, the House may be forced to swallow whatever the Senate passes and it's unclear if dissenting lawmakers from high-tax states have enough numbers to prevent it.” 
 
 Was Michael Flynn discussing returning a Turkish opponent living on U.S. soil during the transition? 
 
 NBCs Carol Lee and Julia Ainsley: “Federal investigators are examining whether former national security adviser Michael Flynn met with senior Turkish officials just weeks before President Donald Trump’s inauguration about a potential quid-pro-quo in which Flynn would be paid to secretly carry out directives from Ankara while in the White House, according to multiple people familiar with the investigation.” 
 
 More: “Investigators for Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s probe into Russia’s attack on the U.S. presidential election recently questioned witnesses about the alleged December 2016 meeting between Flynn and senior Turkish officials, two people knowledgeable with the interviews said. The questions were part of a line of inquiry regarding Flynn’s lobbying efforts on behalf of Turkey.” 
 
 “Four people familiar with the investigation said Mueller is looking into whether Flynn discussed in the late December meeting orchestrating the return to Turkey of a chief rival of Turkish President Recep Erdogan who is living in the U.S. Additionally, three people familiar with the investigation said, investigators are examining whether Flynn and other participants discussed a way to free a Turkish-Iranian gold trader, Reza Zarrab, who is jailed in the U.S. Zarrab is facing federal charges that he helped Iran skirt U.S. sanctions.” ||||| Story highlights Roy Moore's brother defended him "to the hilt" amid the escalating controversy over allegations of sexual misconduct against him 
 
 Jerry Moore firmly denied the charges against his brother and analogized his brother's situation to the persecution of Jesus Christ 
 
 (CNN) Roy Moore's brother is defending the GOP Senate candidate "to the hilt" amid the escalating controversy over allegations of sexual misconduct against him, according to CNN correspondent Martin Savidge, who spoke to the brother on the phone. 
 
 Jerry Moore firmly denied the allegations against his brother and drew an analogy between his situation and the persecution of Jesus Christ, Savidge reported Friday in an interview with CNN's John Berman. 
 
 Savidge spoke to Jerry Moore on Friday morning, one day after an explosive Washinton Post report detailed allegations that the Republican Senate candidate from Alabama pursued sexual relationships with several teens when they were between the ages of 14 and 18 and he was in his thirties, including an alleged sexual encounter with the 14-year-old, who would not have been at the age of legal consent under Alabama law. 
 
 Jerry Moore said, "he knows ... that the allegations against Roy Moore are not true, not true at all," Savidge reported. The younger Moore also said "he's very concerned about what the impact is going to be on their 91-year-old mother, hearing all of this, they worry about her age and health," Savidge said. 
 
 Moore also claimed that the Democratic Party was behind what he called "false allegations," and that "these women are going to, as [Moore] put it, have to answer to God for these false allegations," Savidge said. 
 
 Read More