Source: Multi-News

0 Several arrests made in 1983 'racially-motivated' murder 
 
 SPALDING COUNTY, Ga. - Investigators said two men got away with murder for more than three decades thanks, in part, to help from two law enforcement officers. 
 
 The explosive news came in a news conference from the Spalding County sheriff Friday. 
 
 The death of Timothy Coggins was “no doubt” racially-motivated, according to sheriff Darrell Dix. 
 
 It was in 1983 that Coggins' body was found abandoned near power lines on Manley Road. 
 
 According to the report, Coggins died of multiple forms of trauma. The sheriff said after an exhaustive investigation, the case went cold. 
 
 A new witness came forward earlier this year, which led to a re-examination of the case. Original witnesses were contacted and re-interviewed. 
 
 TRENDING STORIES: 
 
 Channel 2 Action News learned that two of the five people implicated in the death of Coggins were acting in their official capacity when the crime happened. Dix said Milner Police Officer Lamar Bunn was charged with obstruction, and Spalding County Detention Officer Gregory Huffman was charged with violation of oath office. 
 
 Frankie Gebhardt, 59, and Bill Moore Sr., 58, were charged with felony murder. 
 
 Sandra Bunn, 58, was charged with obstruction. 
 
 “There is no doubt in the minds of all investigators involved that the crime was racially motivated, and if the crime happened today it would be prosecuted as a hate crime,” Dix said. 
 
 Coggins' family thanked the current sheriff and the GBI for taking another look at this case. 
 
 "We know that there's been tireless nights and we know that you guys have put in so many hours making sure that these people were brought to justice, so on behalf of them, we would definitely like to say 'thank you,'” said Coggins’ niece, Heather Coggins. “The only unfortunate part in this is that our grandparents, Timothy Coggins’ parents, are not able to see this today." 
 
 The sheriff said recent media coverage helped witnesses to come forward. 
 
 “Thanks to the assistance of both local and statewide new media coverage, previously unknown witnesses stepped forward and when interviewed, many of the witnesses stated that they had been living with this information since Coggins' death but had been afraid to come forward until now or had not spoken of it until now,” Dix said. 
 
 The sheriff said the investigation is not over and that more arrests are expected. 
 
 Friends of the victims said they thought this day would never come. 
 
 "It worried everybody to death, but we never could find out what was going on, so life just continued to go on," Alton McFarland said. 
 
 The Coggins’ family never gave up hope for justice. 
 
 “Even on my grandmother's deathbed she knew that justice would one day be served,” said Heather Coggins. “So we are eternally grateful and we would like to say thank you.” 
 
 © 2019 Cox Media Group. ||||| Five people, including two law enforcement officials, were arrested Friday by the Spalding County Sheriff’s Department in connection with a 1983 cold case. 
 
 Timothy Coggins, a 23-year-old man, was found dead on a power line near Minter Road in the city of Sunny Side on Oct. 9 of that year. 
 
 Frankie Gebhardt, 59, and Bill Moore Sr., 58, were charged with murder, aggravated assault, aggravated battery and concealing a body. Lamar Bunn, a Milner Police Department employee, and Sandra Bunn, 58, were charged with obstruction. Gregory Huffman, a detention officer with the Spalding County Sheriff’s Office, was charged with obstruction and violation of oath of office. 
 
 Sheriff Darrell Dix said there is “no doubt” in the minds of investigators that the crime was racially motivated, and if it occurred today it would be prosecuted as a hate crime. 
 
 Officials did not release any additional information on the suspects’ involvement in the crime. Huffman was fired from the sheriff’s office Friday morning. 
 
 Timothy Coggins, 23, was found dead in Sunny Side, Ga in Spalding County on Oct. 9, 1983. ((Spalding County Sheriff’s Office)) 
 
 “(Coggins) was murdered brutally,” Dix said. “And we are going to make sure people answer to that crime.” 
 
 The GBI and Spalding sheriff’s department reopened the case in March after receiving new information and met with Coggins’ family in July. Many of the witnesses interviewed said they had been living with information since Coggin’s death, but “had been afraid to come forward or had not spoken of it until now,” officials said. 
 
 “We have always wanted justice, held out for justice, and knew that we would have justice,” Heather Coggins, the man’s niece, said at a news conference. “We have endured grief for the past 34 years … our journey is coming to an end; their journey is just beginning.” 
 
 The initial investigation in 1983 hit a snag when those suspected of being involved threatened and intimidated potential witnesses, Dix said. 
 
 Officials said the investigation is not over, and more people could be arrested and charged. 
 
 “We are sending a message that we want to make crystal clear. If you are a criminal, murderer, drug dealer or gang member, you are no longer welcome or tolerated in Spalding County,” Dix said. “We will do everything we can do to stop you, regardless of who you are, where you come from, and as was demonstrated today, regardless of time or distance.” ||||| Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings. 
 
 Oct. 14, 2017, 2:56 PM GMT / Updated Oct. 14, 2017, 6:07 PM GMT By Reuters, Yelena Dzhanova and Jay Varela 
 
 A decades-old investigation in Georgia into the murder of a black man in 1983 culminated in the arrests of five white people on Friday, including two law enforcement officers charged with hindering the probe, officials said. 
 
 The body of Timothy Coggins, 23, was found on Oct. 9, 1983, in a grassy area near power lines in the community of Sunnyside, about 30 miles south of downtown Atlanta. 
 
 He had been “brutally murdered” and his body had signs of trauma, the Spalding County Sheriff’s Office said in a statement. 
 
 Timothy Coggins Spalding County Sheriff's Office 
 
 Investigators spoke to people who knew Coggins, but the investigation went cold, Spalding County Sheriff Darrell Dix said at a news conference. 
 
 This past March, new evidence led investigators from the Georgia Bureau of Investigation and Spalding County to re-examine the case. 
 
 Dix did not provide details on the nature of the evidence, saying more tips were received after authorities, over the summer, announced to the media the case was re-opened. 
 
 “Even on my grandmother’s death bed, she knew that justice would one day be served.” 
 
 Some witnesses confessed they lived with knowledge about the case for years, but were afraid to come forward, Dix said. 
 
 “It has been an emotional roller coaster for everybody that was involved,” Dix said. 
 
 Police arrested five people on Friday in connection with the slaying. Frankie Gebhardt, 59, and Bill Moore Sr, 58, were each charged with murder, aggravated assault and other crimes. 
 
 Authorities did not immediately say where Gebhardt and Moore lived. At a hearing Saturday morning, the two were denied bond, the Sheriff's Office said. 
 
 Related: Follow Other Cold Cases That Remain Unsolved 
 
 Gregory Huffman, 47, was charged with obstruction and violation of oath of office, Dix said. Huffman was a detention officer with the Spalding County Sheriff’s Office but his employment was terminated after he was arrested. Huffman was being held on a $25,000 bond for the violation of oath of office and $10,000 for obstruction. 
 
 Lamar Bunn, a police officer in the town of Milner, which is south of Spalding County, was also arrested and charged with obstruction, as was Sandra Bunn, 58. She is Lamar’s mother, according to NBC affiliate WXIA. Lamar and Sandra were both released Friday night on bond of $706.75. 
 
 Clockwise, left to right; Gregory Huffman, Bill Moore Sr., Frankie Gebhardt, Sandra Bunn, and Lamar Bunn. Spalding County Sheriff's Office 
 
 Investigators are convinced the murder was racially motivated, Dix said. 
 
 “There is no doubt in the minds of all investigators involved that the crime was racially motivated and that if the crime happened today it would be prosecuted as a hate crime,” the Sheriff’s Office said. 
 
 Dix said that "without getting into detail, you hear people talk about overkill and this was definitely overkill. It was meant to send a message and it was brutal." 
 
 Several members of Coggins’ family appeared at the news conference Friday where authorities announced the arrests. 
 
 The family held out for justice all this time, said Heather Coggins, a niece of the victim. 
 
 “Even on my grandmother’s death bed, she knew that justice would one day be served,” she said. 
 
 It was not immediately clear if any of the five arrested people had an attorney, and they could not be reached for comment.