Source: Multi-News

Getty Obama makes immigration joke at turkey pardon 
 
 President Barack Obama used his presidential powers to grant one lucky turkey “amnesty” on Wednesday. 
 
 “I am here to announce what I’m sure will be the most talked-about executive action this month,” Obama joked during the Pardoning of the National Turkey, a tradition where the president excuses one turkey and an alternate from becoming a Thanksgiving entree. 
 
 Story Continued Below 
 
 The president used the ceremony as an excuse to make jabs at recent news surrounding his executive action that protects millions of undocumented immigrants from deportation. 
 
 “Today, I’m taking an action fully within my legal authority, the same kind of action taken by Democrats and Republican presidents before me,” he said to a laughing audience. “To spare the lives of two turkeys — Mac and Cheese — from a terrible and delicious fate.” 
 
 This year the turkeys took to Twitter, as the White House started an online campaign where users could tweet their support for #TeamMac or #TeamCheese. Obama announced that Cheese was the winner of the competition, but that both will be saved from the Thanksgiving table and taken to the home of former Virginia Gov. Westmoreland Davis in Leesburg, Va. 
 
 “They’ll get to live out the rest of their days, respectably, at a Virginia estate with 10,000 acres of roaming space,” he said. 
 
 Obama continued, “I know some will call this amnesty, but don’t worry, there’s plenty of turkey to go around.” ||||| Not even the pomp and ritual of the White House can overcome the most powerful force known to man: TEEN CONTEMPT. 
 
 Today President Obama undertook the White House's stupid traditional Thanksgiving ceremony of "pardoning" a turkey. His daughters Malia and Sasha, 16 and 13, accompanied him. Their barely contained disdain for the production was utterly appropriate and utterly magnificent: 
 
 MSNBC reports: 
 
 When asked by her dad if she would like to pet Cheese the turkey, Malia Obama responded, "Nah." 
 
 DAD. Video below. The first 20 seconds contain among the highest concentration of teen-face seen in the White House since Alice Roosevelt was caught smoking cigs on the roof. 
 
 [h/t to Rembert]