Source: Multi-News

The Trump administration may delay a military parade slated for this fall, the Pentagon said Thursday, amid questions about the event’s increasing cost. 
 
 Col. Rob Manning, a Pentagon spokesman, said in a statement that the parade, which President Trump ordered this year as a tribute to American military might, could take place next year. 
 
 “The Department of Defense and White House have been planning a parade to honor America’s military veterans and commemorate the centennial of World War I,” Manning said. “We originally targeted November 10, 2018 for this event but have now agreed to explore opportunities in 2019.” 
 
 Manning provided no reason for the apparent postponement, which came amid a spate of news reports that the event, which is expected to include aircraft, vehicles, period uniforms and symbols of U.S. power, could cost up to $92 million, far more than originally estimated. 
 
 The decision to announce a possible postponement appeared to come together in the space of hours Thursday afternoon and evening. It was not clear who made the decision to explore delaying the event, which had been a priority for Trump. 
 
 Officials have been planning the event since earlier this year, when the president, apparently inspired by a similar display he observed last year in France, discussed the parade in a meeting with senior officials at the Pentagon. 
 
 The cost and the symbolism of the parade — reminiscent, critics say, of shows of force by authoritarian governments — have generated criticism from Democrats and, privately, consternation among military officials at a time when the Pentagon is trying to demonstrate its might against competitors including Russia and China. 
 
 Such large parades have been rare in recent U.S. history, though the George H.W. Bush administration staged a military parade in Washington in 1991 after the conclusion of the Persian Gulf War. 
 
 Earlier this year, a senior official said the parade would probably cost between $10 million and $30 million. Some share of the higher cost of close to $100 million is expected to be paid by other government agencies that would take part in organizing or securing the event. 
 
 Planning for the parade comes at a time when Trump has boasted of saving money by suspending joint military exercises with South Korea, part of his outreach to North Korea. The affected exercise would have cost about $14 million, far less than the parade’s current expected cost. 
 
 The American Legion, a veterans organization, said earlier Thursday that while it appreciated that Trump wanted to show support for U.S. troops, other priorities should win out. ||||| Image copyright AFP/Getty Images Image caption The US put on a grand military spectacle back in 1991, when troops were celebrating victory in the first Gulf War 
 
 President Trump's plans for a Veterans Day military parade through the streets of Washington DC have been delayed until at least 2019. 
 
 Mr Trump was impressed by France's Bastille Day parade on a visit in 2017 and said the US could "top it". 
 
 But figures released on Thursday suggested the event could cost about $90 million (£71m) - more than three times the original estimate. 
 
 Critics had also made comparisons to parades in countries led by autocrats. 
 
 The parade was originally conceived to mark the centenary of the end of World War One, on 11 November. 
 
 A Pentagon spokesperson, Colonel Rob Manning, said in a statement that the Department of Defense and the White House "have now agreed to explore opportunities in 2019". 
 
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption President Trump at Bastille Day parade 
 
 The parade's budget director had offered an estimate of between $10m (£7.8m) and $30m (£23.6m) when the White House announced its request in February. But a US official gave a new estimate of $92m. 
 
 A memo when the plan was first mooted said no tanks would be used so as not to damage the roads of the nation's capital. 
 
 The city's governing District of Columbia Council was critical of the plan when announced, voicing its displeasure on Twitter. 
 
 Members of the Democratic party were similarly sceptical, with congressman Jim McGovern declaring it "an absurd waste of money" on Twitter and saying Mr Trump "acts more like dictator than president". 
 
 The Pentagon said the military would march from the White House to the Capitol, and the parade would feature a "heavy air component at the end". 
 
 The focus was to be on the work of US military veterans through the ages, starting with the American Revolutionary War. 
 
 US media pointed out that Donald Trump cancelled planned military exercises with South Korea in June after his meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong-un on the grounds it would "save a fortune". 
 
 Skip Twitter post by @realDonaldTrump We save a fortune by not doing war games, as long as we are negotiating in good faith - which both sides are! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 13, 2018 Report 
 
 The US had a military parade in 1991 following the end of its successful campaign to force Saddam Hussein's troops out of Kuwait. 
 
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption What makes a military parade? Here's how other countries do it. 
 
 Some social media users questioned the purpose of the parade at all, and said instead the money should be used to directly help veterans. ||||| FILE - In this Jan. 20, 2017, file photo, military units participate in the inaugural parade from the Capitol to the White House in Washington, Friday, Jan. 20, 2017. A U.S. official says the 2018 Veterans... (Associated Press) 
 
 FILE - In this Jan. 20, 2017, file photo, military units participate in the inaugural parade from the Capitol to the White House in Washington, Friday, Jan. 20, 2017. A U.S. official says the 2018 Veterans Day military parade ordered up by President Donald Trump would cost about $92 million _ more than... (Associated Press) 
 
 FILE - In this Jan. 20, 2017, file photo, military units participate in the inaugural parade from the Capitol to the White House in Washington, Friday, Jan. 20, 2017. A U.S. official says the 2018 Veterans Day military parade ordered up by President Donald Trump would cost about $92 million _ more than... (Associated Press) FILE - In this Jan. 20, 2017, file photo, military units participate in the inaugural parade from the Capitol to the White House in Washington, Friday, Jan. 20, 2017. A U.S. official says the 2018 Veterans... (Associated Press) 
 
 WASHINGTON (AP) — The Defense Department says the Veterans Day military parade ordered up by President Donald Trump won't happen in 2018. 
 
 Col. Rob Manning, a Pentagon spokesman, said Thursday that the military and the White House "have now agreed to explore opportunities in 2019." 
 
 The announcement came several hours after The Associated Press reported that the parade would cost about $92 million, according to U.S. officials citing preliminary estimates more than three times the price first suggested by the White House. 
 
 According to the officials, roughly $50 million would cover Pentagon costs for aircraft, equipment, personnel and other support for the November parade in Washington. The remainder would be borne by other agencies and largely involve security costs. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss early planning estimates that have not yet been finalized or released publicly. 
 
 Officials said the parade plans had not yet been approved by Defense Secretary Jim Mattis. 
 
 Mattis himself said late Thursday that he had seen no such estimate and questioned the media reports. 
 
 The Pentagon chief told reporters traveling with him to Bogota, Colombia, that whoever leaked the number to the press was "probably smoking something that is legal in my state but not in most" — a reference to his home state of Washington, where marijuana use is legal. 
 
 He added: "I'm not dignifying that number ($92 million) with a reply. I would discount that, and anybody who said (that number), I'll almost guarantee you one thing: They probably said, 'I need to stay anonymous.' No kidding, because you look like an idiot. And No. 2, whoever wrote it needs to get better sources. I'll just leave it at that." 
 
 The parade's cost has become a politically charged issue, particularly after the Pentagon canceled a major military exercise planned for August with South Korea, in the wake of Trump's summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. Trump said the drills were provocative and that dumping them would save the U.S. "a tremendous amount of money." The Pentagon later said the Korea drills would have cost $14 million. 
 
 Lt. Col. Jamie Davis, a Pentagon spokesman, said earlier Thursday that Defense Department planning for the parade "continues and final details are still being developed. Any cost estimates are pre-decisional." 
 
 The parade was expected to include troops from all five armed services — the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps and Coast Guard — as well as units in period uniforms representing earlier times in the nation's history. It also was expected to involve a number of military aircraft flyovers. 
 
 A Pentagon planning memo released in March said the parade would feature a "heavy air component," likely including older, vintage aircraft. It also said there would be "wheeled vehicles only, no tanks — consideration must be given to minimize damage to local infrastructure." Big, heavy tanks could tear up streets in the District of Columbia. 
 
 The memo from Mattis' office provided initial planning guidance to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. His staff is planning the parade along a route from the White House to the Capitol and would integrate it with the city's annual veterans' parade. U.S. Northern Command, which oversees U.S. troops in North America, is responsible for the actual execution of the parade. 
 
 Earlier this year, the White House budget director told Congress that the cost to taxpayers could be $10 million to $30 million. Those estimates were likely based on the cost of previous military parades, such as the one in the nation's capital in 1991 celebrating the end of the first Gulf War, and factored in some additional increase for inflation. 
 
 One veterans group weighed in Thursday against the parade. "The American Legion appreciates that our President wants to show in a dramatic fashion our nation's support for our troops," National Commander Denise Rohan said. "However, until such time as we can celebrate victory in the War on Terrorism and bring our military home, we think the parade money would be better spent fully funding the Department of Veteran Affairs and giving our troops and their families the best care possible." 
 
 Trump decided he wanted a military parade in Washington after he attended France's Bastille Day celebration in the center of Paris last year. As the invited guest of French President Emmanuel Macron, Trump watched enthusiastically from a reviewing stand as the French military showcased its tanks and fighter jets, including many U.S.-made planes, along the famed Champs-Elysees. 
 
 Several months later Trump praised the French parade, saying, "We're going to have to try and top it."