Source: Multi-News

Please check back soon. 
 
 If you are the owner of this website, please log in for additional 
 
 information or contact us as soon as possible. ||||| Avocados that stay ripe for twice as long as usual thanks to an edible barrier made from plant materials will be sold in the US for the first time this week. 
 
 The tasteless coating, developed by Santa Barbara company Apeel Sciences, controls the two main factors that cause fresh produce to go bad: the rate at which water escapes the surface of fruit and vegetables and the rate at which oxygen enters. This allows treated produce to stay fresh for longer. 
 
 “We’re creating an optimised microclimate that can double the shelf life [of the fruit],” said James Rogers, CEO of Apeel Sciences. “The average avocado might be ripe for 2-3 days. Ours will stay ripe for 4-6 days.” 
 
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest Apeel avocados. Photograph: Apeel 
 
 Apeel hopes its technology can also reduce the amount of fruit and vegetables that are thrown out by retailers and consumers because of spoilage. Americans throw away on average 400lb of food per person, costing a household of four about $1,800 per year. 
 
 Although Apeel is starting with avocados, the coating’s formulation can be modified to create optimal conditions for other items including strawberries, mangoes, apples, bananas, kumquats and asparagus. 
 
 Avocados were a priority because of their notoriously fleeting window of perfect ripeness and relatively high price. 
 
 “Everyone has an experience of cutting into an avocado and discovering it’s past its prime,” said Rogers. “It’s a visceral reaction when you’ve spent a few dollars on something that ends up in the garbage.” 
 
 From this week, the Apeel-treated avocados – grown by California-based Del Rey Avocado – will be available in Costco and Harp Foods stores across the midwest, before rolling out across the United States. 
 
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest The CEO of Apeel Science, James Rogers. Photograph: Apeel 
 
 Rogers says that in California, where a lot of fruit and vegetables are produced, it’s easier to find good quality items in the supermarket. 
 
 “When you go anywhere besides California, the quality of fresh produce suffers,” he said, noting that the quality degrades the longer it takes to transport the produce. “We slow down the rate at which the clock is ticking.” 
 
 Apeel’s coating is made from naturally occurring lipids extracted from discarded fruit or vegetable waste, including tomatoes, grapes, wasted seeds. These lipids are turned into a powder that can be reconstituted with water to create a dip or a spray. 
 
 “Nature has been solving these problems for millions of years,” said Rogers. “We look at how nature has been protecting itself for years and copy those solutions. 
 
 The coating can also extend the life of produce in developing countries where refrigeration is not widely available across the supply chain, which explains why the company launched in 2012 with funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. The company has carried out pilots in Nigeria and Kenya, treating cassava root and mangoes. 
 
 “Our technology allows smaller farmers to get their produce from where it’s grown on their farm to city centres where they can earn the economic value associated with what they are producing,” said Rogers. 
 
 Apeel isn’t the first company to tackle the scourge of the mushy avocado. In 2016 an Australian firm launched what it described as an “avocado time machine”, which slowed the browning process of the fruit by “switching off” the enzyme responsible for the browning using pressure fluctuations generated by steam. 
 
 California-based avocado distributor Calavo uses a contraption called ProRipe VIP that measures how ripe the fruits is by “listening” to it. The machine taps the side of the avocado and then uses sensors to measure the acoustic response – that is, the way the fruit vibrates. This indicates overall firmness and freshness and allows Calavo to determine the ripeness of the tricky-to-judge flesh. ||||| These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.The goal is to fix all broken links on the web . Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites. ||||| Identity 
 
 Latinxs, You Better Believe It: The Future Is Ours ||||| Apeel Sciences 
 
 Avocados are known for their short shelf life. By the time the beloved fruit hits a grocery-store shelf, it will last about a week before it gets too ripe. 
 
 A Santa Barbara, California-based startup called Apeel Sciences has invented an edible coating that it says will double an avocado's shelf life. Food suppliers spray the product on the produce before it ships to grocers. 
 
 So far, the startup has developed products for more than three dozen crops, including asparagus, peaches, lemons, pears, and nectarines. 
 
 Before this week, Apeel had attracted at least $40 million in venture-capital funding from several high-profile investors, including the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. 
 
 On Tuesday, the company announced it received an additional $70 million in a funding round led by Viking Global Investors, Andreessen Horowitz, Upfront Ventures, and S2G Ventures. Walter Robb, Whole Foods Market's co-founder and former co-CEO, will join Apeel's board as well. 
 
 In June, Apeel debuted its longer-lasting avocados at Costco and Harps Food Stores locations throughout the Midwest. This is the first time the startup has sold its produce. (Harps Food Stores, a regional grocery chain, has 87 locations. Costco is much larger, with more than 500 wholesale locations across 44 states and Puerto Rico.) 
 
 Harps reports that, over the past two months, it has seen a 65 percentage-point margin increase and a 10% lift in sales across the Haas avocado category. This may be due to Apeel's claim that it helps food retailers reduce food waste, since its avocados can last longer than traditional ones. 
 
 Made of leftover plant skins and stems, the coating acts as a barrier designed to slow the decay process. After the coating dries, it locks in moisture and acts as a shield against natural gases (e.g., oxygen and ethylene) that make avocados ripen. 
 
 Slicing open an Apeel avocado will break the shield, and at that point it will brown just as fast as a normal avocado. 
 
 "Refrigeration has been used to increase produce quality during transportation and storage, but you lose the benefit of refrigeration when a fruit sits on a grocery store shelf or on a kitchen counter," CEO James Rogers told Business Insider. "With our technology, we're able to dramatically reduce the rate that clock is ticking." 
 
 An untreated avocado versus an Apeel avocado 30 days after harvest. Apeel Sciences 
 
 The US Food and Drug Administration has approved Apeel's first products as "generally recognized as safe," meaning they're OK to eat and sell. In 2017, the company received approval to use the coating on organic produce, though the avocados at Costco and Harps will not be. They'll also cost the same as any other conventionally grown avocados. 
 
 Last year, Apeel moved into a 105,000-square-foot facility, and at least six farms in Southern California, Kenya, and Nigeria are now using Apeel's products. In the past several months, the company finalized negotiations to work with over two dozen packing houses and several farms in Mexico, Peru, and Chile to prepare for its commercial rollout. 
 
 Farms and food-packing houses have been able to buy Apeel's products since early last year. It's usually sprayed on produce during the wash cycle, before it's sorted and packed to go to retailers. 
 
 The coating is made of discarded materials from organic produce — anything from pear stems to leftover grape skins to grass clippings. But the formula differs for each fruit or vegetable. 
 
 The company is also working on a second product called Invisipeel that is designed to keep insects away. Invisipeel is not yet widely available. 
 
 Below is a time-lapse comparison the company created to show Apeel's effect on a variety of fruits and vegetables. 
 
 The coating could help stores and farmers reduce waste from produce that has ripened too quickly. Since Apeel's plant-based product controls the rate of decay, the company offers Costco and Harps a less costly way to preserve produce (the idea being that grocers will discard fewer spoiled avocados and thus save money). This is one major reason the locations will offer Apeel's fruit at the same price as other nonorganic avocados with a shorter shelf life, Rogers said. 
 
 If Apeel starts selling more types of produce at Costco, it could also give the chain an advantage over its competitors, including BJ's Wholesale Club and Whole Foods. Costco is known for its low-cost produce, but as Whole Foods lowers its prices following its sale to Amazon, the wholesaler may be looking for ways to differentiate its fresh food. 
 
 Rogers plans to expand the types of produce Apeel sells and to grow geographically, too. Asparagus could be next.