Source: Multi-News

Passaic bodega owner claims $338 million Powerball prize 
 
 STAFF WRITERS 
 
 The Record 
 
 Photos: Powerball jackpot claimed in Passaic 
 
 CHRIS PEDOTA / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER Pedro Quezada at Eagle Liquors Monday. 
 
 Every evening, Pedro Quezada buys a lottery ticket at Eagle Liquors in Passaic. On Monday, though, he came to cash in. 
 
 Surrounded by a media gantlet and a pack of joyful neighbors, the 44-year-old immigrant from the Dominican Republic who runs a nearby bodega signed the Powerball ticket he had bought two days before —the one that hit the $338 million jackpot, the one that everyone had been buzzing about all afternoon, hoping it had gone to someone they knew. 
 
 Then he called his family to give them the news. “Tell her to come here and help me count it,” he said into the phone. 
 
 Moments later, his wife was on the line. 
 
 “I'm a millionaire, Ines,” he said. “Did you hear?” 
 
 Rarely does good news arrive in such fantastic fashion in this neighborhood, one of North Jersey’s poorest enclaves tucked in the bell curve of the Passaic River and cut off from the rest of the city by the six traffic-clogged lanes of Route 21. It’s a place where the typical household income is $26,000, half the children live in poverty, half the adults lack a high school diploma, only 10 percent own their homes. 
 
 When the news did arrive — in the form of the numbers 17, 29, 31, 52, 53 and Powerball 31 — it didn’t matter that Quezada’s was a form of luck that would likely never strike here again. 
 
 “It’s a blessing for the neighborhood,” said Daphne Robinson, 44, “It gives people hope that there is a blessing somewhere, for somebody.” 
 
 News of the winner’s identity traveled quickly along streets where most of the pedestrians seemed to know each other. Neighbors who had waited under awnings all day for the winner’s identity — ever since the state Lottery Commission announced that morning that the lone winning ticket in the Saturday Powerball drawing was sold in the City of Passaic — now hollered to each other about the sudden good fortune of one of their own. 
 
 “Hey, Charlie,” one man yelled to another outside a barbershop. “Why wasn't it you that won all that money?” 
 
 The fervor continued around the Quezadas’ apartment building, one of about a dozen beige-and-brown buildings along School Street. 
 
 “I'm living next to a millionaire!” a woman announced from her doorway. 
 
 Quezada, a father of five who has owned the Apple Deli and Grocery on Eighth Street since 2006, seemed to be still processing the news as he fielded questions. He answered in Spanish. 
 
 How was he feeling? “I’m nervous and tired.” 
 
 How does it feel to be a millionaire? “I don't know, I don't have it.” 
 
 What would he do with the money? “I want to help a lot of people, in whatever they need, in rent, in whatever.” 
 
 Later, outside his apartment building, his wife, Ines Sanchez, said she hadn’t really grasped the idea … yet. 
 
 “We never expected it, but thank God,” she said. “I couldn't believe it. I still don't.” 
 
 The Quezada family was hit with their share of bad luck recently. Thieves broke into their small apartment about two years ago, stealing everything from clothes to jewelry, friends and neighbors said. 
 
 About a year before that, a fire destroyed much of their bodega. 
 
 “They had nothing for a while,” said longtime friend Alberto Liranzo. “Now they got enough money to buy a million bodegas.” 
 
 Neighbors described the family as a quiet, tight unit. Ines would walk her children to school every day while Pedro worked days and nights. His first job in the States was at a T-shirt printing factory, said a friend who worked there with him. 
 
 “Usually it's people that are already millionaires winning these things,” said neighbor Eladia Vazquez, 55. “I'm just glad it went to somebody that could use it.” 
 
 The lump sum payout is $211 million, amounting to about $152 million after state and federal taxes, Lottery Executive Director Carole Hedinger said. One second-prize ticket worth $1 million was also sold in New Jersey, at a 7-Eleven in Mahwah, she said. 
 
 Powerball is played in 42 states, Washington, D.C., and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The chance of matching all five numbers and the Powerball number is about 1 in 175 million. 
 
 Sunil Sethi, 51, the owner of Eagle Liquors, said lottery officials informed him when he opened at 9 a.m. that his store had sold the jackpot winner, sending a shock wave of excitement through the neighborhood. 
 
 The predominantly Latino, African-American and Polish area has been on a downward trajectory for decades, residents said. The single-family homes were split into apartments long ago, and residents complain about petty crimes and sidewalk drug dealing. 
 
 Recently, there have been glimmers of a better future, from the bright green artificial turf on the new baseball field behind the Vreeland Village public housing development to the big sign in front of the boarded-up Uniroyal factory building announcing that a 550-unit apartment and retail complex is coming. 
 
 But such promises don’t measure up to the dreams of a better life elsewhere shared by seemingly everyone on the street. For Michel DeLillo, 51, it’s a house with a back yard where the 3-year-old grandson she is raising can play. For Daphne Robinson, it’s the promise of more available work in Atlanta. For a 27-year-old man who goes by the name Johnboy, it’s someplace not too far away, maybe on the border of a blue-collar stronghold like neighboring Garfield or Saddle Brook. 
 
 “I’ve got house dreams,” he said. 
 
 Perhaps it is those dreams that propel so many to Eagle Liquors, a nondescript storefront between a mini-mart and a store that sells live poultry where, once a year or so, someone will buy the $219 bottle of Louis Roederer champagne but the most popular choice is the $1 shooter of Paul Masson brandy. The cardboard “Lucky Location, play here” sign that dangles over the lottery ticket counter was provided by the lottery commission because the store “sold a winning ticket in the past,” said Judith Drucker, a commission spokeswoman. 
 
 So many people stop in regularly to play the lottery that one employee, Pravin Mankodia, 67, does nothing but sell tickets six days a week, from opening until closing, and neighbors said a line forms around noon every day. 
 
 “That line is too long,” said Angel Manguel, 30, who lives around the corner. “And everyone is familiar.” 
 
 Elsa Ramirez, who runs the poultry store two doors down, is a regular. “I spend $50 a day on the lottery,” she said. “Last year I won $20,000, but you can see I’m still here with the chickens.” 
 
 More than $41 million worth of Powerball tickets were sold in New Jersey ahead of Saturday’s drawing, Hedinger said. Eagle Liquors will receive a $10,000 commission for selling the winning ticket. 
 
 Neighbors said they wouldn’t blame Quezada if he left with his winnings, but hoped he would be able to invest some of it in the community. 
 
 “It’s not a neighborhood no more,” said Kasim Washington, a local community activist. “You would be a fool to stay in the ’hood with that type of money.” 
 
 Douglas Frederick, 50, said he comes to Eagle Liquors twice a day to buy tickets — scratch games in the morning and Pick 3 in the afternoon. He’s won several times, usually around $100 or $300. 
 
 “I wish I could win the big one,” he said. “I would still stay here. I would represent my community. We need to have it built up a little better. 
 
 “I would like to open up a gym around here so that the kids could have someplace to go instead of being out here on the street.” 
 
 Staff Writers Jim Norman, Michael Linhorst and Dave Sheingold contributed to this report. Email: alvarado@northjersey.com and akin@northjersey.com ||||| The winner of a $338 million Powerball jackpot told several media outlets Monday that his first priority will be helping his family. 
 
 FILE - In this Friday, Nov. 23, 2012 file photo, a Powerball form and purchased ticket are on the counter at the Jayhawk Food Mart in Lawrence, Kan. A single ticket sold in New Jersey matched all six... (Associated Press) 
 
 Pedro Quezada, 44, entered Eagle Liquors store, where the ticket was sold, late Monday afternoon. The Passaic store owner ran Quezada's ticket through the lottery machine to validate that it was a winner as a newspaper and television outlets recorded the moment. 
 
 The New Jersey Lottery confirmed that the winning ticket was validated at the store at 4:30 p.m. Monday, but officials said they didn't yet know the winner's name. 
 
 Quezada told reporters in Spanish that he was "very happy" and that he intends to help his family. 
 
 His wife, Ines Sanchez, told the Bergen Record that Quezada called her with the news Monday afternoon. 
 
 "I still can't believe it," she said. "We never expected it but thank God." 
 
 The numbers drawn Saturday were 17, 29, 31, 52, 53 and Powerball 31. A lump sum payout would be $221 million, or about $152 million after taxes. It's the fourth-largest jackpot in Powerball history. 
 
 The family's apartment sits at the end of a short dead end block that abuts a highway in Passaic, 15 miles northwest of New York City. Neighbors stood out in the rain Monday night and spoke with pride that one of their own had struck it rich. 
 
 Eladia Vazquez has lived across the street from Quezada's building for the past 25 years. The block has a half-dozen three-story brick apartment buildings on each side, and Vazquez says it's a neighborhood where everyone knows everyone, including what car they drive and what parking space they use. 
 
 Vazquez described Quezada and his wife as "quiet and not overly talkative" but sensed that they seemed to be working all the time. 
 
 "This is super for all of us on this block," she said. "They deserve it because they are hardworking people." 
 
 Richard Delgado, who lives down the block from Quezada's building, said the man was "a hard worker, like all of us here. We all get up in the morning and go to work." 
 
 Delgado said he got up Sunday morning and was going to take his dog for a walk when he heard the radio announce the Powerball results. 
 
 "When I heard there was one winner and it was in New Jersey, I immediately went and checked my tickets," Delgado said. "I wanted to be that guy." 
 
 When asked what it would be like to suddenly win such a large amount, Delgado said a person would have to set priorities. 
 
 "No. 1 is your health, because if you don't have that, the rest doesn't matter," he said. "No. 2 is your family. You take care of your own and live the rest of your life in peace. That's all anyone can do." 
 
 No one had won the Powerball jackpot since early February, when Dave Honeywell in Virginia bought the winning ticket and elected a cash lump sum for his $217 million jackpot. 
 
 The largest Powerball jackpot ever came in at $587.5 million in November. The winning numbers were picked on two different tickets _ one by a couple in Missouri and the other by an Arizona man _ and the jackpot was split. 
 
 Nebraska still holds the record for the largest Powerball jackpot won on a single ticket _ $365 million _ by eight workers at a Lincoln meatpacking plant in February 2006. 
 
 Powerball is played in 42 states, Washington, D.C., and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The chance of matching all five numbers and the Powerball number is about 1 in 175 million. 
 
 ___ 
 
 Associated Press writer Angela Delli Santi contributed to this report from Lawrenceville, N.J.