Source: Multi-News

Emergency responders work at the scene of a crash between an Amtrak passenger train and a CSX freight train Sunday, Feb. 4, 2018 in Cayce, S.C. The crash left multiple people dead and dozens of people... (Associated Press) 
 
 Emergency responders work at the scene of a crash between an Amtrak passenger train and a CSX freight train Sunday, Feb. 4, 2018 in Cayce, S.C. The crash left multiple people dead and dozens of people injured. (Lexington County Sheriff's Department via AP) (Associated Press) 
 
 CAYCE, S.C. (AP) — An Amtrak passenger train slammed into a freight train parked on a side track in South Carolina in the early morning darkness Sunday, killing two Amtrak crew members and injuring more than 110 people, authorities said. 
 
 It was the third deadly wreck involving Amtrak in less than two months. 
 
 The Silver Star was en route from New York to Miami with nearly 150 people aboard around 2:45 a.m. when it plowed into the CSX train at an estimated 59 mph, Gov. Henry McMaster said. The crash happened around a switchyard about 10 miles (16 kilometers) south of Columbia. 
 
 The governor said investigators have yet to determine how the Amtrak train ended up on that stretch of track. 
 
 "The CSX was on the track it was supposed to be on," McMaster said. 
 
 The National Transportation Safety Board sent investigators to the scene. 
 
 In an emailed statement, Amtrak said that it was "deeply saddened" by the deaths and that it was cooperating fully with the NTSB. It did not address the cause of the crash but said CSX maintains all the tracks and signal systems where the accident happened and controls access to the sidings and yards. 
 
 CSX did not immediately return an email and telephone call. 
 
 The force of the crash dislodged a seat and knocked it onto passenger Tronia Dorsey's legs, said her son, Andre Neblett, who spoke with her. The 43-year-old woman, who escaped with minor scratches and bruises, described a terrifying scene inside the dark compartment, with people screaming and babies wailing, he said. 
 
 "It was chaos," Andre Neblett said after driving in from North Carolina to retrieve his mother's suitcase from a Red Cross shelter. "She said she was just waiting on somebody to get to her." 
 
 The conductor and engineer aboard the Amtrak locomotive were killed, the coroner's office said. And 116 people were taken to four hospitals, according to the governor. 
 
 At least three patients were hospitalized in critical or serious condition, with nearly all the rest treated for minor injuries such as cuts, bruises and whiplash, authorities said. 
 
 Palmetto Health emergency room doctor Eric Brown said so many passengers were hurt that they were brought in on two buses, and a tent that had been set up as a waiting room to keep people separate from flu patients was turned into a triage area. 
 
 The locomotives of both trains were left crumpled, the Amtrak engine on its side. One car in the middle of the Amtrak train was snapped in half, forming a V off to one side of the tracks. 
 
 "It's a horrible thing to see, to understand the force involved," the governor said after touring the scene. 
 
 Many passengers were asleep with the train began shaking violently and then slammed to a halt, passenger Derek Pettaway told CBS. 
 
 "You knew we'd hit something or we'd derailed," he said. 
 
 Elliot Smith told The State newspaper of Columbia that he was staying with a friend when they heard what sounded like a propane tank exploding. 
 
 "The sound was so loud, you instantly knew it was bad," he said. Smith said he and his friend saw passengers limping along the tracks, while others tried to get everyone out of the cars. 
 
 Amtrak officials gathered up luggage and other belongings and within hours put passengers aboard buses to their destinations. Before being sent on their way, those who were not hurt were taken to a shelter set up at a middle school, and local businesses provided coffee and breakfast. 
 
 "We know they are shaken up quite a bit. We know this is like nothing else they have ever been through. So we wanted to get them out of the cold, get them out of the weather — get them to a warm place," sheriff's spokesman Adam Myrick said. 
 
 The dead were identified as engineer Michael Kempf, 54, of Savannah, Georgia, and conductor Michael Cella, 36, of Orange Park, Florida. 
 
 Lexington County Coroner Margaret Fisher's voice caught as she released the names of the dead. 
 
 "Any time you have anything that happens like that, you expect more fatalities. But God blessed us, and we only had the two," Fisher said. 
 
 On Wednesday, a chartered Amtrak train carrying Republican members of Congress to a strategy retreat slammed into a garbage truck at a crossing in rural Virginia, killing one person in the truck and injuring six others. 
 
 And on Dec. 18, an Amtrak train ran off the rails along a curve during its inaugural run on a route south of Tacoma, Washington, killing three people and injuring dozens. It was going nearly 80 mph, more than twice the speed limit. 
 
 After the latest crash, Democratic Sen. Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut said the nation's railroads must be made safer, declaring, "Business as usual must end." He said proven technology, including positive train control, cannot continue to be delayed. 
 
 Positive train control is GPS-based technology that can automatically slow or stop speeding trains. Regulators have been pressing for years for such equipment, and some railroads have installed it, but the deadline has been pushed back repeatedly at the industry's request. 
 
 The latest wreck again raised criticism about the safety culture of the nation's passenger railway. 
 
 With the string of crashes "it's becoming almost like an epidemic for Amtrak," said Najmedin Meshkati, a University of Southern California engineering professor who has studied positive train control. 
 
 The worst rail tragedy in recent South Carolina history took place in 2005 when a freight engineer parked a train on a side track near a textile mill in Graniteville and forgot to flip the switch back to the main track. 
 
 A freight train passing through went barreling down the side track and slammed into the parked train, killing nine people, most of them millworkers choked by chorine gas that leaked from a damaged tanker car. 
 
 ___ 
 
 Associated Press writer Jeffrey Collins in Columbia, South Carolina, contributed to this report. ||||| The engineer of the Amtrak train, Michael Kempf, 54, of Savannah, Georgia, and the conductor, Michael Cella, 36, of Orange Park, Florida, were killed, Lexington County Coroner Margaret Fisher said. 
 
 A friend of Cella’s, Michael Callanan, told NBC affiliate WIS of Columbia that the conductor had two young children and had recently purchased a home. 
 
 “When he got done with work, he put his stuff in his bag and went home,” said Callanan, a former conductor who met Cella in 2008 while working for Amtrak in Jacksonville. 
 
 On his Facebook profile, which was confirmed by a relative to NBC News, Kempf posted often about politics and military veterans. He also wrote to his wife, “my Best Friend, Soul Mate and at last, my Lovely Wife Thank You for your support and putting up with Me.” 
 
 Authorities investigate the scene of a fatal Amtrak train crash in Cayce, South Carolina on Feb. 4, 2018. Tim Dominick / The State via AP 
 
 Robert Sumwalt, chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board, or NTSB, said that the Amtrak train was diverted from the main track, where it was supposed to have been, onto a side track where the CSX freight train was. The freight train had been at a loading and unloading facility for automobiles before being parked on the side track, he said. 
 
 Sumwalt said a rail switch that changes the direction of the track was lined in a way that diverted the Amtrak train from the main line onto the side track. 
 
 "For whatever reason, that switch was, as they say in the railroad industry, 'lined and locked,' which means it was aligned for the train coming down this way to be diverted into the siding," he said. 
 
 "Of course, key to this investigation is learning why that switch was lined that way, because the expectation, of course, is that the Amtrak would be cleared and operating straight down like this," he added, pointing to a whiteboard drawing of the tracks. 
 
 The CSX train was stationary and appeared to be empty at the time of the crash, officials said. McMaster said there were several train tracks at the location of the collision. 
 
 The NTSB sent an investigative team, and Amtrak and CSX said in statements that they were fully cooperating with the safety board. 
 
 Amtrak said that CSX maintains all of the tracks and signal systems in the area. 
 
 Richard Anderson, Amtrak's president and chief executive, said in a phone call with reporters that "our understanding is that the signal system was down and that we were being managed by the dispatchers and by CSX controlling the switches on this bypass." 
 
 Anderson added that the Amtrak train was supposed to be on the main line "just east of the collision." 
 
 CSX did not provide details about the collision. In a statement, the company said it was focused on assisting victims and working with NTSB investigators. 
 
 The statement added that the company “hosts more passenger trains on its network than any other major railroad in the United States, and passenger rail remains one of the safest ways to travel.” 
 
 The collision was yet another crash highlighting Positive Train Control, a system that among other things is designed to prevent trains from speeding. 
 
 "A fully operational Positive Train Control system could've avoided this accident — that’s what it's designed to do," Sumwalt said Sunday afternoon. 
 
 An Amtrak train, bottom right, and a CSX freight train, top left, crashed in Cayce, South Carolina on Feb. 4, 2018. Jeff Blake / AP 
 
 Dr. Steve Shelton, director for emergency preparedness at Palmetto Health System, said that it received 62 patients across its three facilities. 
 
 Shelton added that the "majority" of patients did not sustain life-threatening injuries. Hospital officials said later Sunday that six patients had been admitted. 
 
 Lexington Medical Center said it received 27 patients, most with minor injuries. Many were treated for cuts and bruises and were released, while two were admitted, spokeswoman Jennifer Wilson said. 
 
 Jaclyn Kinney, 22, from of Pinehurst, North Carolina, was in the sleeper car with her boyfriend on their way to Orlando. 
 
 "We basically woke up to the train crash," she told NBC News. 
 
 "It knocked us around, and we got bumped into the wall from the impact, and the train derailed. The cafe car that was right in front of us was in much worse shape, so we were lucky," she said. 
 
 "The staff members came by and made sure people were OK before we left the car. We were waiting for a few minutes before they evacuated us." 
 
 "There were a few people with noticeably bad injuries, but most people didn't seem super injured," Kinney added. ||||| The Amtrak train that collided Sunday morning with a freight train and killed two people appeared to be on the wrong track, possibly because a switch was in the wrong position, S.C. Gov. Henry McMaster and state officials said Sunday. 
 
 Investigators now are trying to determine if the switch was misaligned, causing the passenger train to run off the main line and collide with the parked freight train, according to the S.C. Office of Regulatory Staff. 
 
 The CSX freight train was empty, stationary and on a loading track when the collision occurred, McMaster said. The Amtrak train was traveling about 50 mph, within the posted 59 mph speed limit, according to the regulatory staff agency. 
 
 “It appears to me that the CSX train was on the track it was supposed to be on,” McMaster said. “It appears Amtrak was on the wrong track.” 
 
 SIGN UP 
 
 Tom Allen, a transportation safety director with the state ORS, said “it was probably a switching issue’’ that caused the Amtrak train to run onto the side track. 
 
 The National Transportation Safety Board will be looking into the matter as the lead investigative agency, Allen said. Investigators with the National Transportation Safety Board will be arriving on site all day, and that includes NTSB chairman Robert Sumwalt, a Columbia native. 
 
 “Part of the preliminary indications are that it would have to be a switching issue,’’ Allen told The State. “It was no derailment caused by a flaw in the track. The Amtrak was on the wrong track.’’ 
 
 CSX, which owns the track, would be responsible for maintaining the switch on the track, Allen said. 
 
 The federal government has been moving to institute what is known as “positive train control,’’ a system that would warn speeding trains of upcoming dangers. But Allen said indications are that positive train controls had not yet been implemented. 
 
 “At this time, to my knowledge, this train did not have the PTC,’’ or positive train control, Allen said. 
 
 According to the Federal Railroad Administration, Congress required some railroad mainlines, including those with commuter rail passenger service, to fully implement positive train control by the end of 2015. But Congress extended the deadline by at least three years to December 31, 2018, according to the FRA. 
 
 Such technology acts similar to a breaking system, to prevent crashes. 
 
 The two people who died were Amtrak workers, McMaster said. More than 100 were treated at local hospitals for various injuries. 
 
 “It’s a horrible thing to see to understand the force that is involved,” McMaster said after viewing scene. “The first engine of the freight train was torn up and the single engine of the Amtrak train was barely recognizable. It was quite a crash.” 
 
 Sunday’s crash brought back memories for many people of a disastrous train wreck that occurred in Graniteville 13 years ago, when a freight train ran off a main line and collided with a parked train on a side track. In that case, a switch was determined to be in the wrong position. 
 
 The difference between the Graniteville wreck and the Cayce crash is that chemicals were not involved with the Cayce wreck, according to preliminary reports. The Graniteville wreck killed nine people when chlorine was released over the small mill town in Aiken County. 
 
 On Sunday, McMaster visited with the Cayce passengers who were taken to a Red Cross shelter set up at nearby Pine Ridge Middle School. He said he counted 32 people being taken care of at the school. 
 
 “The spirits, under the circumstances, were very good,” he said. 
 
 This is the second fatal Amtrak crash nationally in a week and the third in the last few months. Three people were killed in Washington State in December when an Amtrak train crashed there. 
 
 Other key news and developments from Sunday’s crash. 
 
 ▪ The crash occurred near Charleston Highway and Pine Ridge Road around 2:35 a.m. Sunday. The lead Amtrak car and a few passenger cars derailed. 
 
 ▪ There were eight crew members and approximately 139 passengers on board. Anyone seeking info about passengers on Train 91 should call the Amtrak info line at 1-800-523-9101. 
 
 ▪ All the passengers have been removed from Amtrak 91, which was operating from New York to Miami. 
 
 ▪ 116 people were taken to local hospitals with various injuries. 
 
 ▪ The White House released this statement: “The President has been briefed on the train accident in South Carolina and is receiving regular updates. Our thoughts and prayers are with everyone that has been affected by this incident.”