Source: Multi-News

Image caption The Bois de Boulogne, one of Paris's two main woods, has been named as a possible site 
 
 Next summer, nudists or naturists may be able to bare it all in a designated area of the French capital, Paris. 
 
 City councillors have approved plans for an experimental nudist area, possibly in one of Paris's parks or in wooded areas on its outskirts. 
 
 The Green Party, which proposed the plan, said France was a top destination for naturists, and its capital city should have somewhere for them to go. 
 
 One centrist councillor, however, called the idea "demented". 
 
 He said the idea of authorising full-scale nudity in the middle of the capital might be seen as a provocation, especially at a time when feelings were still running high over the 'burkini' issue, the BBC's Hugh Schofield reports. 
 
 But those who support the move say, in a country with numerous clothes-free beaches and holiday camps, Paris should also be a draw for naturists. 
 
 "We've got two million nudists in France which is doubled during the summer with visitors," said David Belliard, co-chairman of the ecologist group in the city council. 
 
 "For them Paris is the world's premier tourist destination and there's no public place for them to go. We want to try out a recreational area where nudists can freely strip off." 
 
 Deputy Mayor of Paris Bruno Julliard said he was in favour of the plan, as was Mayor Anne Hidalgo. 
 
 He said the likeliest site for the naturist zone is in one of Paris's two main woods - the Bois de Boulogne to the west or Bois de Vincennes to the east - "near a lake, in a regulated setting so that there is no threat to public order". 
 
 'Historic' road closure 
 
 Hours earlier, Paris's city council approved another controversial plan - to transform a highway into a walkway. 
 
 Some 3.3km (2 miles) of road from the Tuileries Garden toward the Bastille neighbourhood will be closed down and turned into a pedestrian-only zone. 
 
 Conservatives have argued this will worsen the city's traffic situation and put commuters at a disadvantage. 
 
 But Mayor Hidalgo has hailed the move as "historic". 
 
 It is part of her plan to tackle high levels of pollution in the capital, the AP news agency reported. 
 
 This will not be the first time a highway has been converted into a walkway. A road along the Left Bank has already been converted for pedestrian use. ||||| Paris city councillors will debate Monday on creating spaces for nudists, an idea that Mayor Anne Hidalgo thinks is “très sympa [nice/fun]”. 
 
 The proposal, put forward by three Green councillors, will be debated Monday. Hidalgo’s deputy Bruno Julliard told RMC radio earlier in the day (see tweet below) that “we will accept the creation of a nudist camp in Paris”. 
 
 "Nous allons accepter la proposition d'un camp naturiste à Paris", déclare le 1er adjoint au maire @BrunoJulliard sur RMC #BourdinDirect pic.twitter.com/PGh0PwKZRH — Jean-Jacques Bourdin (@JJBourdin_RMC) September 26, 2016 
 
 Paris has very little to offer those who like to relax and exercise in the great outdoors in nothing but their “birthday suits”, and nudism is considered indecent exposure, punishable by up to a year in jail and a maximum fine of 15,000 euros. Paris has also banned the “monokini”, a revealing one-piece swimsuit, and the g-string, in public spaces. 
 
 There is just one swimming pool, the Roger Le Gall in the city’s 12th arrondissement, which allows nude swimming (three times a week after 9pm). 
 
 Green councillor David Belliard, who sponsored the proposal, told journalists: “France is the world’s top destination for naturists, and every year two million Germans, Dutch, Britons and Belgians come to the country for its nudist beaches. It shouldn’t be impossible to accommodate them in Paris too.” 
 
 “We have to find an outdoor space where nudism is allowed, in the city’s parks, forests or on the banks of the Seine,” he added.