Source: Multi-News

Report says air pollution is having a devastating impact on children worldwide, storing up a public health time bomb 
 
 Poisonous air is having a devastating impact on billions of children around the world, damaging their intelligence and leading to hundreds of thousands of deaths, according to a report from the World Health Organization. 
 
 The study found that more than 90% of the world’s young people – 1.8 billion children – are breathing toxic air, storing up a public health time bomb for the next generation. 
 
 The WHO said medical experts in almost every field of children’s health are uncovering new evidence of the scale of the crisis in both rich and poor countries – from low birth weight to poor neurodevelopment, asthma to heart disease. 
 
 Dr Tedros Adhanom, WHO director general, said: “Polluted air is poisoning millions of children and ruining their lives. This is inexcusable – every child should be able to breathe clean air so they can grow and fulfil their potential.” 
 
 The findings coincide with the start of the first global conference on air pollution and health in Geneva, including a high-level action day at which nations and cities are expected to make new commitments to cut air pollution. 
 
 The WHO study found that children are particularly vulnerable to air pollution because pollutants are often more concentrated nearer to ground level. It added that their developing organs and nervous system are also more susceptible to long-term damage than those of adults. 
 
 “Air pollution is stunting our children’s brains, affecting their health in more ways than we suspected,” said Dr Maria Neira, WHO director of public health and the environment. 
 
 The study found that 600,000 children die from acute lower respiratory infections caused by dirty air and 93% are exposed to one of the most damaging pollutants – PM2.5. In poorer countries, 98% of all children under five are exposed to PM2.5 above WHO guidelines. 
 
 Pregnant women are particularly vulnerable, with dirty air linked to premature and underweight children. Air pollution also increases the risk of chronic diseases such as cardiovascular disease later in life. 
 
 Tedros, writing in the Guardian on Saturday, described air pollution as the “new tobacco”, saying the simple act of breathing is killing 7 million people a year and harming billions more. 
 
 In the UK, most urban areas have illegal levels of air pollution and ministers have lost three times in the high court after challenges over the inadequacy of their action. The latest government action plan, called “pitiful” by environmental lawyers, revealed air pollution was actually much worse than previously feared. 
 
 Globally, with smoking on the decline, air pollution now causes more deaths annually than tobacco. However, researchers think the harm known to be caused by air pollution, such as heart attacks and lung disease, is only “the tip of the iceberg”. 
 
 Today’s report found that both indoor and outdoor air pollution was causing significant health problems. It said burning fuel such as wood or paraffin for heating, cooking and light in poorer countries was having a drastic impact on children’s health and called on governments to promote the clean alternatives as a matter of urgency. 
 
 Neira said there were “many straightforward ways to reduce emissions of dangerous pollutants ”, including “accelerating the switch to clean cooking and heating fuels and technologies, [and] promoting the use of cleaner transport, energy-efficient housing and urban planning. We are preparing the ground for low-emission power generation, cleaner, safer industrial technologies and better municipal waste management.” 
 
 Children are breathing dirty air – and parents are being left to fix it | Maria Miller and Ed Miliband Read more 
 
 Mark Watts, executive director of the C40 Cities group, which represents cities around the world working to tackle the climate crisis and air pollution, said the report was an urgent call to action. 
 
 “The moral and practical case for urgent, bold and far-reaching action to reduce emissions, including calling an end to the fossil fuel era, is now utterly irrefutable,” he said. 
 
 “Citizens are demanding action to protect their children, mayors of the world’s big cities are regulating to take dirty vehicles off the streets and slash emissions from buildings and waste. Now is the moment for governments, car manufacturers and other big polluters to step up.” 
 
 Neira said the air pollution crisis and the climate emergency could only be tackled together. 
 
 “The solutions are a basic public health agenda that will have plenty of benefits for public health and the environment,” she said. “No matter what else, we know that we need to decarbonise our society sooner rather than later and the benefits of that for our health and our economy are indisputable.” ||||| (CNN) Around 93% of the world's children under 15 years of age breathe air that is so polluted it puts their health and development at serious risk, accounting for 1.8 billion children, according to a report published by the World Health Organization ahead of its first global conference on air pollution and health in Geneva. 
 
 In 2016, 600,000 children were estimated to have died from acute lower respiratory infections caused by polluted air. 
 
 Air pollution is one of the leading threats to health in children under 5, accounting for almost one in 10 deaths among this age group, the report reveals. 
 
 "This is inexcusable. Every child should be able to breathe clean air so they can grow and fulfil their full potential" said WHO Director-General Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus in a statement. 
 
 Air pollution also effects neurological development and cognitive ability and can trigger asthma and childhood cancer, the report says. Children exposed to excessive pollution may also be at greater risk of chronic conditions such as cardiovascular disease in adulthood. 
 
 "Air pollution is stunting our children's brains, affecting their health in more ways than we suspected. But there are many straightforward ways to reduce emissions of dangerous pollutants," said Dr. Maria Neira, director of the Department of Public Health, Environmental and Social Determinants of Health at the WHO. 
 
 According to the WHO, children are more susceptible to pollution because they breathe more often, taking in more pollutants, and are closer to the ground, which is where some pollutants have higher concentrations. 
 
 India reaching peak season 
 
 In few places is pollution more pertinent than India's most populous city, Delhi, where residents are bracing themselves for peak crop-burning season and the annual Hindu festival of Diwali, both of which add to a thick, toxic smog cast over the city. 
 
 "Air pollution is one of the leading risk factors for the national burden of disease in India," the report states, adding that researchers tracked more than 1,000 women in India throughout pregnancy and found a direct correlation between increased exposure to pollution and premature, underweight babies. 
 
 Air conditions are deteriorating quickly in the country's capital; 29 monitoring stations in the city on Monday recorded "very poor" air quality while four stations recorded air quality as "severe." Delhi is now the second most polluted major city in the world, according to air quality tracker AirVisual, second only to Lahore in Pakistan. 
 
 "Weather conditions are projected to become adverse from November 1," warned the India Meteorological Department in a statement made last week. A task force led by the country's Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has recommended a ban on all construction activities in the Delhi-NCR region for 10 days beginning November 1 to reduce dust as air quality is expected to deteriorate. 
 
 The average level of PM2.5 -- particulate matter smaller than 2.5 micrometers in diameterthat can dangerously clog lungs -- was 354 in the city on Monday. The WHO considers levels under 25 to be acceptable for humans to breathe regularly. 
 
 Among low- and middle-income countries, 98% of all children under 5 are exposed to PM2.5 levels above WHO air quality guidelines, the report found. In comparison, in high-income countries, 52% of children under 5 are exposed to such levels. 
 
 The most recent air pollution data from WHO released in March gave India the distinction of having the world's 10 most polluted cities. 
 
 Delhi's air is so polluted that residents could live as much as nine years longer if Delhi met WHO standards, estimated the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago in a study published in 2017. 
 
 Last year, the Indian Medical Association declared a public health emergency because of alarming pollution levels and hospitals were clogged with wheezing men, women and children. 
 
 Why is it so bad in India? 
 
 As winter approaches, crop burning, firecrackers and a fall in temperatures fuel the annual deterioration in Delhi's already-poor air quality. 
 
 Every year, farmers across fertile neighboring states set fire to their fields to clear them for the next season. Known as stubble burning, the practice means millions of tons of crop residue are set alight, releasing untold amounts of particulate matter into the environment. 
 
 Stubble burning in the northern states of Punjab and Haryana contributed 32% of Delhi's overall pollution on Saturday, according to a report by the country's System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). 
 
 The authorities have tried to reduce crop burning by imposing fines and providing subsidies for alternative machinery, but for many farmers there is still no affordable alternative. 
 
 The city is also preparing for Diwali, the annual festival of lights, which begins this year on November 7. Residents celebrate by lighting lamps and bursting firecrackers, which have caused a sharp spike in pollution levels in previous years. 
 
 During Diwali last year, Delhi's air quality index reached 604 -- more than 24 times higher than the level the WHO deems safe. 
 
 This year, authorities hope that a Supreme Court ban on the sale of most firecrackers will help prevent a plunge in air quality, though critics are skeptical about how effective the ban will be and how it will be enforced. 
 
 What is being done about it? 
 
 In response to falling air quality in India, the country's Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) started implementation of a graded response action plan for the second year running, under which certain measures are taken as the air quality worsens. 
 
 Measures introduced so far include a periodic mechanized sweeping of roads with heavy traffic, water sprinkling on unpaved roads and an increase in parking fees of up to four times. Rules are also enforced for dust control in construction activities and only trucks registered after 2005 are permitted entry into the city. 
 
 If the situation gets bad enough, authorities will consider banning trucks and construction in the city altogether. 
 
 Government bodies have warned Delhi residents to keep windows shut, wear masks and minimize use of private vehicles to curb the effects of increasing pollution in the city. They have also advised people to avoid outdoor activities in the coming days. 
 
 What needs to be done globally 
 
 The WHO says a range of actions are needed to curb the problem and protect the health of children worldwide, including the implementation of new policies to reduce pollution levels -- such as further reducing dependence on fossil fuels and aiding the use of renewable energy, providing greater resources to heath professionals, improving waste management and locating schools and playgrounds away from busy roads and factories. 
 
 Get CNN Health's weekly newsletter Sign up here to get The Results Are In with Dr. Sanjay Gupta every Tuesday from the CNN Health team. 
 
 "WHO is supporting implementation of health-wise policy measures like accelerating the switch to clean cooking and heating fuels and technologies, promoting the use of cleaner transport, energy-efficient housing and urban planning," said the WHO's Neira. "We are preparing the ground for low-emission power generation, cleaner, safer industrial technologies and better municipal waste management." ||||| Air pollution is a silent public health emergency, killing 7 million people every year and damaging the health of many, many more. 
 
 Despite this epidemic of needless, preventable deaths and disability, a smog of complacency pervades the planet. 
 
 This is a defining moment and we must scale up action to urgently respond to this challenge. 
 
 Air pollution puts the health of billions at risk from the simple act of breathing. The World Health Organization estimates nine in 10 people globally breathe polluted, toxic air. 
 
 Air pollution is a health risk at every stage of life. 
 
 The Guardian view on air pollution: it’s time for politicians to clean up | Editorial Read more 
 
 Exposure to air pollution during pregnancy can damage a developing baby’s vital organs including the brain, heart and lungs and lead to a range of conditions including asthma, heart disease and cancers. 
 
 Air pollution also negatively affects brain development during childhood, lowering children’s chances of success in school and employment possibilities later in life. 
 
 The WHO’s latest estimates show that air pollution is responsible for one-quarter to one-third of deaths from heart attack, stroke, lung cancer and chronic respiratory disease. 
 
 No one, rich or poor, can escape air pollution. A clean and healthy environment is the single most important precondition for ensuring good health. By cleaning up the air we breathe, we can prevent or at least reduce some of the greatest health risks. 
 
 Although air pollution is getting worse in many parts of the world, this is not an inevitable march toward disaster. 
 
 There is much that we can do to improve air quality, but we must all play our part. No person, group, city, country or region can solve the problem alone. We need strong commitments and actions from everyone: government decision-makers, community leaders, mayors, civil society, the private sector and even the individual. It will take time and endurance but we all have a critical role to play. 
 
 The WHO is already taking on the battle. We are empowering health professionals not only to explain the risks of air pollution to their patients and how best to reduce those risks, but to give them the skills and evidence to advocate for health in policy decisions impacting air quality and public health. 
 
 Through global commitments such as the Sustainable Development Goals, the Paris climate accord and the Urban Agenda 2030, the WHO is building alliances with partners working in energy, climate and environment. 
 
 We are using the “health argument” to bring different players in transport, urban planning, housing, energy and environment to the table and giving them the tools, resources and support to evaluate the health impacts of their policy decisions. 
 
 The WHO also supports the health sector to “walk the talk” on air pollution and health. Inefficient energy use in hospitals and other healthcare facilities contributes to air pollution but is also a barrier to providing even the most basic health services and ultimately universal healthcare. The WHO is working with partners in the energy sector to understand the power needs of essential medical services, and to help drive innovation in clean and renewable energy power for healthcare delivery. 
 
 We need a fossil fuel non-proliferation treaty – and we need it now | Andrew Simms and Peter Newell Read more 
 
 Despite the overwhelming evidence, political action is still urgently needed to boost investments and speed up action to reduce air pollution. 
 
 I am excited and honoured that, in less than a week, the WHO will host the first global conference on air pollution and health, where leaders will chart next steps for future action to cut air pollution in their countries. 
 
 The conference will include a high-level “action day” at which we expect ministers, mayors, heads of intergovernmental organisations and others to make commitments to reduce air pollution and its impact on health. This will include measures like strengthening standards and legislation on air quality, improving assessment of the effects of pollution, enhancing global leadership and advocacy, ensuring access to clean energy and increasing investments in low-emissions technologies, as well as research, monitoring and evaluation. 
 
 The world has turned the corner on tobacco. Now it must do the same for the “new tobacco”: the toxic air that billions breathe every day. 
 
 • Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus is director general of the World Health Organization.