Source: Multi-News

A man accused of removing another man's testicle during a meeting in a Port Macquarie motel room has pleaded guilty to a string of charges. 
 
 Allan George Matthews, 57, appeared in Port Macquarie Local Court on Wednesday morning for the first time since his arrest in Glen Innes, last month. 
 
 SHARE 
 
 Share on Facebook SHARE 
 
 Share on Twitter TWEET 
 
 Link A man has pleaded guilty after 'unauthorised' surgery to remove another's testicle. 
 
 During the proceedings, Matthews' solicitor Douglas Hannaway entered pleas of guilty to removing tissue from the body of another without consent or authority. 
 
 He has pleaded not guilty to the more serious charge of reckless grievous bodily harm. 
 
 Magistrate Dominique Burns ordered police to compile a brief of evidence by next month and serve it on Matthews' defence before it returns to court in mid-August. 
 
 The charges stem from an incident in a motel room in Port Macquarie on May 16. 
 
 Advertisement 
 
 Police allege Matthews met a 52-year-old man and surgically removed his left testicle. 
 
 It is the crown's case that Matthews is not qualified or authorised to perform such a procedure, and is not a qualified or registered medical practitioner. 
 
 The 52-year-old alleged victim attended the motel room after posting an advertisement online requesting assistance with a medical issue, police claim. 
 
 After the alleged incident, the man then attended hospital a week later to repair the wound he suffered to his testicle. 
 
 The hospital visit triggered an investigation by Mid North Coast police who raided Matthews' home in Glen Innes on June 23. 
 
 They seized medical equipment, electronic equipment, seven firearms and four bottles of what they suspected to be amyl nitrate. 
 
 In court, Matthews pleaded guilty to not keeping a pistol safely, possessing an unauthorised firearm, not keeping a firearm safely, and two counts of possessing or attempting to prescribe restricted substance. 
 
 According to court documents, the 57-year-old did not enter a plea to the charge of causing grievous bodily harm. 
 
 Matthews remains on conditional bail. 
 
 The Port News ||||| AAP 
 
 A DIY “doctor” accused of slicing off a man’s testicle in a NSW motel room has pleaded guilty to a charge of illicitly removing another person’s bodily tissue. 
 
 Police say Allan George Matthews, 56, responded to an online advertisement posted in May by a 52-year-old man requesting help with a medical issue. 
 
 The two men then met at a motel in Port Macquarie, on the state’s mid-north coast, where the younger man’s left testicle was allegedly surgically removed by Matthews, who police say was not a qualified doctor. 
 
 A week later, the younger man showed up at hospital seeking help with a wound he had sustained during the illicit operation. 
 
 Matthews faced Port Macquarie Local Court on Wednesday and entered a guilty plea to a charge of removing tissue from the body of another person without proper consent or authority. 
 
 He has also admitted charges of possessing a prescribed restricted substance, unauthorised possession of a firearm and failure to keep a firearm safely, but will fight a charge of reckless grievous bodily harm, according to court records. 
 
 He is yet to enter a plea to the charge of causing grie`vous bodily harm with intent. 
 
 Matthews will remain on bail until his case returns to court on August 18. ||||| Image caption A man has admitted removing another man's testicle during an "unauthorised" surgery 
 
 An amateur surgeon in Australia has pleaded guilty to removing the left testicle of a man who could not afford professional medical treatment. 
 
 Allan George Matthews, 56, admitted to "removing tissue" from the man "without consent or authority" at a motel in Port Macquarie, north of Sydney. 
 
 Police said the 52-year-old victim posted an online ad "requesting assistance with a medical issue". 
 
 He had been suffering for years after being kicked in the groin by a horse. 
 
 Police became aware of the case in June when the man attended hospital after the wound he suffered during the operation became infected. 
 
 Officers raided Matthews' home and seized medical equipment, firearms and four bottles of what they suspected to be amyl nitrate. 
 
 Prosecutors alleged that Matthews was not authorised to perform such a procedure as he was not a qualified or registered medical practitioner. 
 
 He also pleaded guilty in court this week to illegally possessing a gun and two counts of possessing or attempting to prescribe a restricted substance.