Source: Multi-News

Katy Perry is all about breaking conventional beauty rules, from her love of everything technicolor and coated in glitter, to her no-brows, black lipstick Met Gala look. So, of course, the pop star — and face of CoverGirl — was the perfect person to help announce that the beauty brand has named its first-ever male CoverGirl, social media star James Charles. 
 
 According to a press release from the brand, all CoverGirls “are role models and boundary-breakers, fearlessly expressing themselves, standing up for what they believe, and redefining what it means to be beautiful,” and who better to embody that ethos than Instagram sensation James Charles. After launching his beauty account a year ago, the teen has since quickly attracted hundreds of thousands of followers (427,000 to be exact) thanks to his unique, transformative approach to makeup artistry. 
 
 RELATED PHOTOS: Katy Perry’s Most Outrageous Twitpics 
 
 While Charles’ partnership with the brand kicks off today, we’ll have to wait until later this month to see him debut the brand’s new mascara designed to work on all lash types, CoverGirl So Lashy! by blastPRO Mascara. His first launch will include TV, print and digital components and he will continue to promote the brand and generally slay for the rest of 2017. 
 
 What do you think of the first male CoverGirl? Sound off below! ||||| James Charles, a 17-year-old New York-based makeup artist, might want to rethink the word “aspiring” in his Instagram bio. 
 
 He’s the first ever male CoverGirl, an honor revealed Tuesday on Katy Perry’s Instagram. 
 
 Just wrapped another great @COVERGIRL shoot. Honored to have the pleasure to announce the very first COVERBOY, James Charles! Follow him @JCharlesBeauty! #COVERGIRLJames #glam❗️ A photo posted by KATY PERRY (@katyperry) on Oct 10, 2016 at 10:52pm PDT 
 
 “Just wrapped another great @CoverGirl shoot. Honored to have the pleasure to announce the very first COVERBOY, James Charles! Follow him @JCharlesBeauty!” she captioned a photo of the two of them. 
 
 James Charles, who only started trying makeup a year ago, will appear in campaigns for CoverGirl’s newest mascara, “So Lashy.” The brand explained in a press release that its newest launch is designed to work on all lash types, and shared why he’s the perfect person to front the campaign. 
 
 CoverGirl Those brows, though? 
 
 “All of our CoverGirls are role models and boundary-breakers, fearlessly expressing themselves, standing up for what they believe, and redefining what it means to be beautiful,” read the statement. “James Charles is no exception. One year ago, he boldly chose to launch his Instagram to the world, using transformative, dynamic makeup looks to showcase the many facets of his personality, serving as an inspiration to anyone who might have been afraid to do the same.” 
 
 James Charles has racked up over 400,000 followers in just one year of posting, thanks to masterful skills and an extensive array of looks, ranging from wild... 
 
 ... to just plain stunning. 
 
 Oh, and did we mention this kid’s got personality? Take these epic senior photos as proof. 
 
 I mean are we really that surprised? 😂😂 Shoutout to Carlyn Studios for dealing with my extra ass 💀😂 A photo posted by JAMES CHARLES (@jcharlesbeauty) on Sep 5, 2016 at 3:08pm PDT ||||| Just wrapped another great @COVERGIRL shoot. Honored to have the pleasure to announce the very first COVERBOY, James Charles! Follow him @JCharlesBeauty ||||| If you happen to land on James Charles's Instagram feed, you'll immediately note that the talented teen has perfected the art of the dramatic lash, otherworldly highlight, artistic eye, and more. In fact, you may remember that his strobing skills are so good, they even got a shout-out from Zendaya one time. And it looks like a certain brand has just taken note of James's major beauty moves, and decided to bring them to an even broader audience in the coolest way. Today, we found out that Covergirl Cosmetics is naming the Instagram superstar their first male spokesperson, and we are so here for it. 
 
 As the beauty community has grown over time, we've noted boy beauty gurus like Manny Gutierrez and Patrick Starr taking to social media to share their skills and breaking down gender boundaries at the same time. We're firm believers that anyone on the gender spectrum should be able to share their passion for makeup without facing outdated stereotypes and negative judgement, and we couldn't be happier to see Covergirl and James take an amazing step forward. As the brand noted, they've always chosen to partner with "role models and boundary-breakers, fearlessly expressing themselves, standing up for what they believe, and redefining what it means to be beautiful." We think the glam guru totally embodies that description, and it sounds like Covergirl agrees, citing him as "as an inspiration to anyone who might have been afraid to do the same." We're feeling inspired by this announcement for sure, and we can't wait to see what this cool collab brings. We'll be watching! 
 
 Loading View on Instagram 
 
 Related: 
 
 8 Makeup Tutorials By Boys That Will Blow Your Mind 
 
 The Brave Reason Manny Gutierrez Gave Up Medical School for a Beauty Career 
 
 Here's Why Patrick Starr Uses TWO Mirrors to Get Glam ||||| The "aspiring makeup artist", according to his Instagram account bio, should really change it to "inspiring". At only 17 years old, James Charles has risen in popularity thanks to his Instagram account, which already has more than 431,000 followers after only one year. His account showcases makeup styles including pixellated lips and his signature bold galaxy look. 
 
 No wonder that his unique and daring style got him Katy Perry's full support. The face of CoverGirl and outspoken pop star announced on her Instagram page that the beauty brand has named its first ever male CoverGirl. "Just wrapped another great @CoverGirl shoot. Honored to have the pleasure to announce the very first COVERBOY, James Charles! Follow him @JCharlesBeauty!" she captioned the picture of the both of them. 
 
 CoverGirl published its own statement and explained why James Charles is the perfect fit for their campaign.