Source: Multi-News

Senators have voted to pass the federal government's bill legalizing recreational marijuana by a vote of 52-29, with two abstentions, paving the way for a fully legal cannabis market within eight to 12 weeks. 
 
 "I'm feeling just great," said Sen. Tony Dean, who sponsored the bill in the Senate. "We've just witnessed a historic vote for Canada. The end of 90 years of prohibition. Transformative social policy, I think. A brave move on the part of the government." 
 
 Dean said he thought the Senate functioned well throughout the process and he was proud of the work the Red Chamber did. 
 
 "Now we can start to tackle some of the harms of cannabis. We can start to be proactive in public education. We'll see the end of criminalization and we can start addressing Canada's $7-billion illegal market. These are good things for Canada." 
 
 It’s been too easy for our kids to get marijuana - and for criminals to reap the profits. Today, we change that. Our plan to legalize & regulate marijuana just passed the Senate. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/PromiseKept?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#PromiseKept</a> —@JustinTrudeau 
 
 Initially, the government had planned for the bill to be passed by both houses of Parliament in time for retail sales to begin by July 1. That timeline was pushed back after the Senate requested more time to review the bill. 
 
 Now that the bill has passed, it's up to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his cabinet to choose the actual date when the legalization of recreational marijuana becomes law of the land. Bill C-45 comes with a provisional buffer period of eight to 12 weeks to give provinces time to prepare for sales of recreational marijuana. 
 
 The Senate and the House of Commons battled over the bill for months. 
 
 The Senate had proposed 46 amendments to the Cannabis Act. The Liberal government rejected 13 of those proposed changes last week — including one provision that would have affirmed the provinces' right to ban home cultivation of marijuana. 
 
 Quebec and Manitoba both wanted to forbid their citizens from growing recreational marijuana at home, even after cannabis is legalized federally. Nunavut was looking to ban home cultivation as well but reversed course on the issue last week, when it removed the ban from its territorial Cannabis Act. 
 
 The Senate suggested the federal government affirm the provinces' right to do so in the Cannabis Act. 
 
 "We have a bill that has an overarching goal to reduce the marijuana use among young people in this country and what it does right off the get go is normalizes it," said Conservative Sen. Leo Housakos, former Speaker of the Senate. 
 
 "There's nothing in this bill that indicates to me that we're tackling the problem, which is increased marijuana use among young people." 
 
 News of the bill's passage drew immediate response from some of the government's critics on social media. 
 
 Sen. Peter Harder, the government representative in the Senate, laughs in response to a reporter's question about his outfit, after the vote on Tuesday. (Justin Tang/Canadian Press) 
 
 "One of the strong recommendations by experts was that we ensure personal cultivation of four plants at home," Trudeau told reporters last week. 
 
 "We understand there are questions and concerns about this, and we understand also that it will be important to study the impacts of what we're doing and whether there can be changes made in three years, but we need to move forward on better protecting our communities." 
 
 A motion was moved today that would have seen the amendment returned to the bill, but senators defeated it by a vote of 45-35. 
 
 Some amendments stripped away 
 
 Another significant Senate amendment that was stripped from the bill would have created a public registry of investors in cannabis companies. That amendment was crafted by Conservative Sen. Claude Carignan to keep criminal gangs from using offshore tax havens to invest in Canada's cannabis industry. 
 
 Sad day for Canada’s kids. <a href="https://t.co/y9CKJo7054">https://t.co/y9CKJo7054</a> —@LindaFrum 
 
 Another significant Senate amendment quashed by the government would have banned the distribution of branded "swag" by pot companies, such as T-shirts, hats and phone cases that display a company logo. 
 
 Independent Sen. André Pratte, who disagrees with the government's decision to force provinces to accept home cultivation, said he was angry the bill passed without the major amendments posed by the Senate. 
 
 "Of course I am disappointed, and also a little bit angry that they didn't take more time and of course did not accept the amendment. We believe that it was a reasonable and flexible solution to the problem," he said. 
 
 "[The Liberals] have to decide at one point; what kind of Senate do they really want," Pratte said. "Do they want a really independent, modern Senate? If so, well, they have to take our amendments into consideration seriously." 
 
 Sen. Tony Dean, who sponsored Bill C-45, the Cannabis Act, speaks to reporters after the vote. (Justin Tang/Canadian Press) 
 
 On Monday of this week, 205 MPs voted to send the bill, minus 13 of the 46 Senate amendments, back to the Red Chamber. 
 
 NDP MPs supported the bill, while those on the Conservative benches voted against it. ||||| OTTAWA -- The Senate has voted to pass Bill C-45, the government’s legislation to legalize cannabis, meaning that recreational marijuana will soon be legal across Canada. 
 
 Some parliamentarians are calling it an "historic" moment in this country, while others are warning of the work left to be done: raising public awareness about the implications of this incoming major social policy change. 
 
 After more than a year of intensive study in both the House and Senate, the bill cleared the final legislative hurdle Tuesday evening, passing by a vote of 52 to 29 with two abstentions from the Independent Senators from Quebec: Sen. Marie-Françoise Mégie and Sen. Rosa Galvez. 
 
 The vote was on a motion from Sen. Peter Harder, the Government Representative in the Senate, to accept the government’s position on the Senate's amendments and pass the bill as is. It was all that was left in a short round of legislative ping-pong spurred by the upper chamber amending the government legislation. 
 
 The House of Commons will be notified of the Senate's decision. After that, all that is left will be Royal Assent to officially pass the bill and for the government to determine when the new law will come into force. 
 
 Leader of the Independent Senators Group Sen. Yuen Pau Woo told reporters after the vote that the mammoth study of Bill C-45 was “a bit of a stress test” for the increasingly Independent Senate. 
 
 He said now, the work will have to begin on implementing the legislation, and making sure Canadians understand what this new regime means. 
 
 "We are now moving where in the legalized industry we have the chance to push out the illicit elements, we have the chance to do research on cannabis, we have the chance to properly educate our young people on the harms of cannabis use, and all of this should be the focus of the whole country now," Sen. Woo said. 
 
 The legislation -- an electoral promise of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and the Liberal Party --allows adults in Canada to legally possess and use small amounts of recreational cannabis. It sets out parameters around the production, possession, safety standards, distribution, and sale of the drug. It also creates new Criminal Code offences for selling marijuana to minors. The proposed federal law spells out that it will be illegal for anyone younger than 18 to buy pot, but allows for provinces and territories to set a higher minimum age. 
 
 In a tweet, Justice Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould, who was the bill's sponsor, and first introduced the legislation in April 2017, said it was "an historic milestone for progressive policy in Canada." 
 
 The federal government is expected to formally respond to the bill's passage Wednesday morning in the House of Commons foyer. 
 
 Last week, the government announced it would be accepting most but not all of the Senate's more than 40 proposed amendments to Bill C-45. Among the 13 amendments that the federal Liberals rejected were the proposal to allow the provinces and territories to ban home-grown marijuana, and a proposed change to prohibit pot producers from distributing branded merchandise. 
 
 Earlier in the evening, an attempt by Conservative Sen. Claude Carignan to insist on an amendment to let provinces ban marijuana home cultivation, failed. 
 
 Reacting to his effort to push back on the government’s rejection of the change, Carignan said his attempt was to give the provinces a right he believes they should have, in an effort to circumvent what is now likely: the matter winding up in court. 
 
 Senators spent much of Tuesday offering their final thoughts on the legislation, with some expressing disappointment and frustration over MPs not accepting the Senate's changes, and raising remaining concerns with the legislation as it stands. 
 
 Others argued that the upper chamber had done its due diligence and that it was time to concede to the will of the elected House of Commons, and pass the legislation. 
 
 In calling the vote, Senate Speaker George Furey had a slip of the tongue and called “all those in flavour” instead of “all those in favour,” sending snickers through the chamber. "It's getting late," Sen. Furey said. 
 
 Speaking with reporters following the vote, Sen. Harder said he was finally pausing after the manoeuvrings and the procedural wrangling to acknowledge that after a very lengthy debate, Canada is on the cusp of legalization after nearly a century of prohibition. 
 
 "It is a step in the right direction and what we now need to do is to insure as we move forward in implementation, that everybody plays their role, that everybody understands the obligations that they have and uses the opportunity of the next number of weeks to inform themselves of what a legal cannabis market means for them, their family, their communities, and the opportunities and risks that it poses," said Sen. Harder. 
 
 So is marijuana legal? No. 
 
 The bill still needs to receive Royal Assent, which is expected as soon as tomorrow. That is the final step -- essentially the Crown approving the bill. It's overseen by Canada's representative, the Governor General. 
 
 Once it passes, the government is expected to declare the date that legalization will come into force and be applicable. 
 
 On CTV's Question Period, parliamentary secretary and the federal government’s point-person on pot, Bill Blair said he expects the date to be some time this September. 
 
 That window of time between when the bill passes and when it becomes federal law is to allow for the provinces, territories, municipalities, police forces, and other stakeholders to make sure their piece of the pot pie is operating in accordance with the new rules. 
 
 Blair said the date they decide on will be informed by discussions with their provincial and territorial counterparts, which have been given the ability to set regulations in their jurisdictions as to how a legalized marijuana regime will operate. 
 
 What you need to know: 
 
 Many of the decisions around how legalized marijuana is sold and used will be up to the provinces and territories. Here is what you need to know about what will be allowed: 
 
 The federally mandated public possession limit of 30 grams of dried cannabis has been maintained across the country, with most jurisdictions opting to keep their legal marijuana-smoking ages in line with those for drinking alcohol. 
 
 Bill C-45 allows individuals to grow up to four marijuana plants per residence, though some provinces, like Manitoba and Quebec, plan to ban home cultivation. 
 
 Provincial and territorial plans vary widely on whether you’ll be able to smoke in public. 
 
 Provinces and territories also differ on whether pot shops will be publicly or privately owned. For those opting for publicly owned stores, these will be operated by provincial Crown corporations that sell liquor. In some cases, provinces have even created subsidiaries of these companies with names. Unless otherwise noted, these will be standalone stores wholly separate from those that sell alcohol. 
 
 While dried cannabis and cannabis oil -- both of which will be sold in 2018 -- can be used to make edible products at home, the federal government has said that packaged edible products won’t be commercially available. 
 
 For a comprehensive rundown of how each province is approaching legalized marijuana, click here. 
 
 Outcome of drug-impaired driving bill pending 
 
 Bill C-45 was introduced alongside Bill C-46 which specifically deals with impaired driving. The government has hoped throughout the process that the two bills would pass in close succession. 
 
 This legislation proposes changes to the impaired driving laws to give police new powers to conduct roadside intoxication tests, including oral fluid drug tests, and would make it illegal to drive within two hours of being over the legal limit. 
 
 However, the Senate amended Bill C-46 to remove the provision that allowed police to conduct random roadside alcohol tests. The Senate also sought to legally downgrade impaired driving offences so that they are not classified as “serious criminality” in order to protect foreign nationals and permanent residents from losing their statuses or becoming inadmissible to Canada after such a conviction. 
 
 On Monday, the government gave notice of its position on the Senate changes, stating that it “respectfully disagrees” with these two changes. However, in the motion the government indicates it is willing to accept a handful of other Senate amendments to the legislation. 
 
 The House has yet to send this message back to the Senate but once that occurs, Bill C-46 is in for a similar final debate and vote, as seen with Bill C-45, where senators will have to decide whether they insist, or accept and pass the bill. 
 
 The House of Commons is scheduled to adjourn for the summer on Friday, June 22, but the Senate is set to sit for a week longer. There is always the potential of an early adjournment, or the opportunity to sit longer in exceptional circumstances. 
 
 Here's a recap of the final moments of debate in the Senate. Using our app? Touch here to see the recap below. ||||| Image copyright AFP/Getty Image caption The Senate passed the bill, with 52 votes in favour and 29 against 
 
 Canada's parliament has passed a law legalising the recreational use of marijuana nationwide. 
 
 The Cannabis Act passed its final hurdle on Tuesday in a 52-29 vote in the Senate. The bill controls and regulates how the drug can be grown, distributed, and sold. 
 
 Canadians will be able to buy and consume cannabis legally as early as this September. 
 
 The country is the second worldwide to legalise the drug's recreational use. 
 
 Uruguay became the first country to legalise the sale of cannabis for recreational use in December 2013, while a number of US states have also voted to permit it. 
 
 Cannabis possession first became a crime in Canada in 1923 but medical use has been legal since 2001. 
 
 The bill will likely receive Royal Assent this week, and the government will then choose an official date when the law will come into force. 
 
 Prime Minister Justin Trudeau tweeted that until now, "it's been too easy for our kids to get marijuana - and for criminals to reap the profits". 
 
 But some groups objected to the new law, with opposition Conservative politicians and indigenous groups among those voicing concerns. 
 
 The government is expected to give the provinces and territories, as well as municipalities, eight to 12 weeks to set up the new marijuana marketplace. 
 
 This timeframe will also allow industry and police forces to prepare for the new legal framework. 
 
 In 2015, Canadians were estimated to have spent about C$6bn ($4.5bn, £3.4bn) on cannabis - almost as much as they did on wine. 
 
 How will legal marijuana in Canada work? 
 
 It is likely that by mid-September, Canadians will be able to buy cannabis and cannabis oil grown by licensed producers at various retail locations. 
 
 Canadians across the country will also be able to order the drug online from federally licensed producers, and grow up to four plants at home. 
 
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Take a look inside the world's largest legal cannabis farm 
 
 Adults will be able to possess up to 30 grams (one ounce) of dried cannabis in public. 
 
 Edibles, or cannabis-infused foods, will not be immediately available for purchase but will be within a year of the bill coming into force. The delay is meant to give the government time to set out regulations specific to those products. 
 
 The minimum legal age to buy and consume marijuana has been set federally at 18 but some provinces have chosen to set it at 19. 
 
 Provinces are in charge of how it is sold and have the power to set various other limits on its use within their jurisdiction - like where it can be smoked. 
 
 But the federal government has set guidelines for plain packaging with little branding and strict health warnings. It will also impose restrictions on promotions targeting young people, promotion through sponsorships, or depictions of celebrities, characters or animals in advertisements. 
 
 What will remain illegal? 
 
 It will be illegal to possess more than 30 grams of cannabis in public, grow more than four plants per household and to buy from an unlicensed dealer. 
 
 Image copyright Press Association Image caption There will still be some restrictions on cannabis use in Canada 
 
 Penalties will be severe. Someone caught selling the drug to a minor could be jailed for up to 14 years. 
 
 Some critics say the penalties are too harsh and not proportional to similar laws like those around selling alcohol to minors. 
 
 What are the rules around the world? 
 
 Cannabis is banned in most countries but a number of places have decriminalised its use in recent years. The UK government said recently it would review the use of medicinal cannabis. 
 
 It is legal for medicinal purposes in 14 European countries, Israel, Argentina, Puerto Rico, Panama, Mexico, Turkey, Zambia and Zimbabwe. 
 
 In the US, medicinal use is allowed in 29 states and the District of Columbia, Nine of the states have legalised both medical and personal cannabis use. 
 
 Spain, the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovenia, Jamaica, Chile, Peru, Colombia, Ecuador and Luxembourg are among countries that have relaxed legislation regarding personal use. 
 
 Did anyone object? 
 
 The new law has not been met with universal praise. 
 
 Conservative Party leader Andrew Scheer has previously said he was apprehensive it would normalise cannabis use and make it more accessible. 
 
 Leo Housakos, a Conservative senator from Quebec, tweeted to say that he thought the law would be "catastrophic for Canadian generations to come". 
 
 One specific concern being raised is the legal minimum age being set at 18 instead of 25, as was recommended by multiple experts. However, the government's own task force recommended 18, warning that setting the age limit too high could continue to encourage youth to buy marijuana on the illegal market. 
 
 Opponents also question the potential public health impact of legalisation. 
 
 Meanwhile, indigenous groups and politicians have voiced fears that their communities were not adequately consulted in the run-up to the vote. 
 
 Indigenous services minister Jane Philpott and health minister Ginette Petitpas Taylor had to write a letter to the chair and deputy chair of the Senate's Committee on Aboriginal Peoples earlier in June promising a full report to parliament addressing their concerns, narrowly averting a delay to the law's passage. 
 
 Why is Canada doing this now? 
 
 This legislation fulfils a 2015 campaign promise by Mr Trudeau, the leader of the Liberal Party. 
 
 The prime minister has argued that Canada's nearly century-old laws criminalising use of the drug have been ineffective, given that Canadians are still among the world's heaviest users. 
 
 Polls have repeatedly indicated that a solid majority of Canadians are supportive of the move. 
 
 The decision to legalise recreational use of marijuana in Canada comes as global trends shift away from criminal prohibition of the widely used drug. ||||| The Senate has voted to accept the latest version of the government’s long-debated legal marijuana legislation, paving the way for the bill to pass into Canadian law. 
 
 The Senate voted 52-29 to approve the government’s newest version of Bill C-45 on Tuesday evening. 
 
 READ MORE: Feds celebrate passage of legal marijuana bill, but questions around home grows linger 
 
 Vote result on @SenHarder's motion related to the House of Commons response to the Senate's amendments to Bill #C45: Yeas: 52 Nays: 29 Abstentions: 2 #SenCA #cdnpoli pic.twitter.com/Pa0LIcp6tq — Senate of Canada (@SenateCA) June 19, 2018 
 
 Bill C-45 now moves to royal assent, the final step in the legislative process. That could occur within days at the government’s discretion. The government’s desire to see home grown marijuana permitted across Canada eventually prevailed, and a proposal from the Senate to allow provinces and territories to ban them has been stripped from the final bill. 
 
 “We have witnessed today a very historic vote that ends 90 years of prohibition, that’s historic. It ends 90 years of needless criminalization, it ends a prohibition model that inhibited and discouraged public health, and community health approaches in favour of ‘just say no.’ Approaches that simply failed our young people miserably,” independent Senator Tony Dean said after the vote. 
 
 READ MORE: Over half of Canadian workplaces are 'concerned' about dealing with legal weed: Report 
 
 But not all Senators were happy with it. 
 
 “This bill does not do what the overarching goal says it does, which is to reduce the marijuana use among young people,” Tory Senator Leo Housakos said. 
 
 “The message for me is be very cautious, just because it’s legal doesn’t make it right. Educate yourself, and take cautious steps because what you do today will invariably have an impact on your life for years to come.” 
 
 WATCH: When will weed actually be legal? 
 
 
 
 Marijuana is not yet legal in Canada, and is not expected to be until late August or early September. The provinces and municipalities have been promised eight to 12 weeks for their final preparations. 
 
 READ MORE: Marijuana won’t be legal on July 1, and here’s why 
 
 Bill C-45 has been the subject of heated debate and uncertainty on Parliament Hill over the past several days. The conflict between the elected House of Commons and the unelected Senate ramped up last week with the government’s rejection of several key Senate amendments — most notably one linked to home cultivation. 
 
 Quebec, Manitoba and Nunavut have all decided they don’t want to allow home grows, in spite of the federal government’s desire to permit four plants per household. The Senate decided to side with the provinces, inserting a provision that would allow them to ban home grows if they desired. 
 
 WATCH: Tory MP fears Canada Day will be defaced by ‘disgusting’ cannabis leaf T-shirts, flags when pot is legalized 
 
 
 
 Over the weekend and into Monday, however, there began to be indications that the Senate might defer to the government’s position. 
 
 In an interview on The West Block on Sunday, Dean, who sponsored the bill in the upper chamber, noted that while the Senate can provide advice, it’s the government that makes final decisions. 
 
 Then, on Monday, independent Sen. Andre Pratte, who had publicly supported the provincial bans, told reporters that while he felt the issue was important, “it’s not crucial” and not important enough to provoke a crisis. 
 
 “We know that it will come before the courts,” Pratte said. “That’s a case, even in the opinion of the Quebec government, that you’d have an excellent chance of winning.” 
 
 READ MORE: The countdown is on for cannabis legalization as feds race ticking clock 
 
 Court challenges may indeed be inevitable, and Quebec has already promised it will push back against any federal law that allows home-grows across the land. 
 
 A spokesperson for Manitoba’s justice minister told Global News on Tuesday that the minister is “satisfied that provinces have the legal authority to restrict home grown cannabis, up to and including prohibition” and that the Manitoba would be “willing to defend our position if challenged.” 
 
 WATCH: How teach province is tackling marijuana legalization 
 
 READ MORE: Quebec premier won’t rule out legal challenge if Ottawa allows home-grown cannabis 
 
 Impaired driving bill still languishing 
 
 One other complication also remains: the government’s second marijuana bill, linked to drug-impaired driving. Bill C-46 includes new powers for police and harsher penalties for driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, but like C-45, it contained some elements that the Senate wasn’t sure should be included. 
 
 Specifically, the upper chamber took exception to allowing police to force drivers to submit to random breath tests (without any reasonable suspicion of impairment) that could detect the active ingredient in marijuana. 
 
 READ MORE: Random breath testing would not violate Charter rights, says constitutional expert 
 
 The Senate removed that mandatory screening provision, which Justice Minister Jody-Wilson Raybould dubbed the “centrepiece” of the legislation, and sent C-46 back to the House of Commons. The government then rejected the Senate’s changes. 
 
 READ MORE: Pot … or not? Small provinces much more prepared for Day 1 of legalization 
 
 As of Tuesday, the issues surrounding Bill C-46 are still not resolved. The House of Commons is set to rise for the summer on Friday. 
 
 The enforcement of Canada’s new impaired driving laws, once they take effect, is also somewhat up in the air. Police currently rely on standard field sobriety tests, Drug Recognition Experts (DREs) and bodily fluid testing to detect impairment by drugs. 
 
 READ MORE: Police training lags as marijuana legalization looms 
 
 “Drug screening devices will assist with roadside testing,” said Mario Harel, president of the Canadian Association of Chiefs of Police, said an emailed statement. 
 
 “At this time, we await approval by the federal government as to which units will meet technical specifications and will be approved by the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada. Until this process has been completed, police services are unable to make purchases and train officers in their use.” 
 
 Harel said that regardless of the status of drug screening devices, “we are very confident in our present processes, knowing that they will continually improve with time as we build capacity.” 
 
 -With files from Bryan Mullan and Janet Silver