Source: Multi-News

CLOSE San Bernardino County Sheriff's Deputies arrested a pair of parents this week after finding their three children living in a plywood box, surrounded by trash, cats and feces, with no access to electricity or running water. By Brett Kelman, The Desert Sun 
 
 Mona Kirk & Daniel Panico arrested for willful cruelty to a child after deputies discover the family’s living conditions in the 7000 block of Sun Fair Road in Joshua Tree. (Photo: San Bernardino County Sheriff's Department) 
 
 Sheriff's officials in San Bernardino County say a Joshua Tree couple kept their three children malnourished and living in a room-sized box for the past four years. 
 
 While conducting an area check Wednesday morning, deputies noticed a travel trailer that appeared to be abandoned and a large rectangular box made of plywood in the 7000 block of Sunfair Road in Joshua Tree. 
 
 SIGN UP FOR FACEBOOK NEWS ALERTS: Message us here to get started 
 
 The property has no electricity or running water, and deputies saw several holes, mounds of trash, human feces, and between 30 and 40 cats, the San Bernardino County Sheriff's Department said in a news release Thursday. 
 
 MORE NEWS: The Turpin kids were starved captives, cops say. So what does freedom taste like? Lasagna 
 
 The parents, Daniel Panico, 73, and Mona Kirk, 51, were arrested and booked into the Morongo Basin Jail on charges of willful cruelty to a child. Their bail was set at $100,000. 
 
 The children, ages 11, 13 and 14, were found at the property. 
 
 Deputies determined that for about four years the children had been living in the box, which is about 20 feet long, 10 feet wide and 4 feet tall. The children did not have enough food and were living in unsafe conditions, officials said. 
 
 Mona Kirk & Daniel Panico arrested for willful cruelty to a child after deputies discover the family’s living conditions in Joshua Tree. (Photo: San Bernadino County Sheriff's Department) 
 
 Children and Family Services responded to the property and took custody of the children. 
 
 The structure where the children were living is on a mostly empty dirt road, two blocks off Highway 62, in the large span of open desert between Joshua Tree and Twentynine Palms. 
 
 Satellite imagery of the address shows a single white trailer, a few cars and what appears to be large piles of discarded trash surrounding the home. 
 
 Most of the adjacent lots are empty, but it appears that at least one neighbor lives in a house, surrounded by a fence, directly across the street. 
 
 The house is about eight miles from the front gate of Joshua Tree National Park and two miles east of the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Station. 
 
 Neighbor Mike Reynolds said the family moved in about four years ago. 
 
 The father owned the land and the trailer and talked about building his dream home on the property, Reynolds said. 
 
 “He was a regular retired guy, and an intelligent man,” Reynolds said. 
 
 Several of his neighbors live “off the grid” so the family not having electricity or running water didn’t strike Reynolds as odd. 
 
 The children seemed healthy and happy, Reynolds added. He noted he never saw any cats wandering around. 
 
 He also suggested people wait for more information before passing judgment on the family. 
 
 Reynolds believes the father kept the family from being homeless by building their home himself. 
 
 “This guy was doing the best he could to raise his family,” Reynolds said. “If I was in his shoes and that’s all I could afford to raise my family and keep them alive — I have seen so much worse.” 
 
 Reporter Brett Kelman contributed. 
 
 Desert Sun breaking news reporter Barrett Newkirk can be reached at (760)778-4767 or barrett.newkirk@desertsun.com. 
 
 MORE NEWS: Turpin home has become a tourist attraction six weeks after their children were rescued 
 
 Read or Share this story: http://desert.sn/2FHiwaR ||||| The Joshua Tree parents of three children, who were found to be living in a large wooden box, were arrested Wednesday morning on suspicion of willful cruelty to a child. 
 
 A deputy was patrolling the rural area in the 7000 block of Sun Fair Road in Joshua Tree, saw a travel-trailer on a property that appeared to be abandoned and the rectangular plywood box, and checked it out, according to a San Bernardino County sheriff’s news release. 
 
 The three children, ages 11, 13 and 14, reportedly lived in the large rectangular box — which was approximately 20 feet long by 4 feet high by 10 feet wide — for about four years. They didn’t have adequate food and were living in an unsuitable, unsafe environment due to the property conditions, the news release stated. 
 
 The mother, Mona Kirk, 51, slept in the box with her children, while the father, Daniel Panico, 73, lived in the trailer or a vehicle, said Cindy Bachman, a Sheriff’s Department spokeswoman, in an email. It’s not known where the children were living prior to living in the box. 
 
 The box was a shelter fabricated out of scrap wood and other material, Bachman said. A tarp on top of the wooden structure kept the rain out, but there was no heat, running water, electricity or bathrooms. 
 
 Photos of the location show old furniture, broken children’s toys, storage containers and other assorted junk strewn about the property. 
 
 Bachman said she doesn’t believe the children were regularly attending school. They were not being locked in or held captive in the box. 
 
 Several large holes and mounds of trash and human feces were found on the property, and about 30-40 cats were roaming freely inside the trailer. 
 
 Children and Family Service responded to the scene and took custody of the children. 
 
 The parents of the children, Kirk and Panico, were arrested on suspicion of willful cruelty to a child and booked into the Morongo Basin Jail in lieu of $100,000 bail each. 
 
 Anyone with information about the Joshua Tree investigation can call the sheriff’s station in Morongo Basin at 760-366-4175. To remain anonymous, contact WeTip at 888-78-CRIME (27463) or go online at www.wetip.com. ||||| "It's just tragic that these children were being raised in conditions like this," Bachman said. "There are services available to help these folks, and clearly they chose not to ask for any help."