Source: Multi-News

BRIAN WILLIAMS, anchor: She was the first woman to serve as dean of Harvard law school and the first woman solicitor general , the government 's lawyer at the Supreme Court . If President Obama has his way, she'll be just the fourth woman in US history to take a seat on the Supreme Court . She is Elena Kagan . She's from New York , and while she's never been a judge, she has that in common with a host of justices on the court throughout history. Today the president praised her legal mind. Now we wait and see how tough a fight this will be. We begin our coverage here tonight with our justice correspondent Pete Williams at the Supreme Court . Pete , good evening. 
 
 PETE WILLIAMS reporting: Brian, the president today called her a woman of many firsts, but one thing she's never been is a judge. That lack of experience is already becoming an issue, even though roughly one-third of all Supreme Court justices were never judges when they got here, either. Mr. Obama called Elena Kagan , the second Supreme Court nominee of his presidency, someone who can bring people together. 
 
 President BARACK OBAMA: Elena is respected and admired not just for her intellect and record of achievement, but also for her temperament, her openness to a broad array of viewpoints. 
 
 P. WILLIAMS: She's the child of a New York housing rights lawyer father and a public school teacher mother. 
 
 Ms. ELENA KAGAN: My parents' lives and their memory remind me every day of the impact public service can have. And I pray every day that I live up to the example they set. 
 
 P. WILLIAMS: Judging from her high school yearbook, she had early aspirations to wield a gavel. Classmates say she was a standout in a school of overachievers. 
 
 Ms. JUSTENE ADAMEC (Former Classmate): She would speak up and talk to the teachers as if she was much older. She knew far more history and far more of the news events that the rest of us had not started paying attention to. 
 
 P. WILLIAMS: After Princeton and Harvard law school , she clerked for Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall , who called her "Shortie." For most of the 1990s she taught law at the University of Chicago , where she met a young Barack Obama , a part-time faculty member. She served President Clinton as a lawyer and policy adviser and later became the first woman dean of Harvard law . She diversified the faculty, hiring prominent conservatives. But her tenure included controversy; she enforced a long-standing anti-discrimination policy there, blocking military recruiters from the law school because of the Pentagon 's ban on gays in the military . Last year President Obama appointed her solicitor general , responsible for arguing the government 's position before the Supreme Court . 
 
 Ms. KAGAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the court , I have three very quick points to make about the government 's position. 
 
 P. WILLIAMS: Some Republicans say her lack of experience as a judge clouds her nomination . 
 
 Senator MITCH McCONNELL (Minority Leader): The lifetime position on the Supreme Court does not lend itself to on-the-job training. 
 
 P. WILLIAMS: But some Senate Democrats consider her background a plus. 
 
 Senator PATRICK LEAHY (Democrat, Senate Judiciary Committee Chair): I worry when you're in a judicial monastery that you don't have the kind of real world experience you might have otherwise. So I -- and she brings a breadth of experience . 
 
 P. WILLIAMS: And a Supreme Court expert says her lack of experience as a judge leaves a scant paper trail . 
 
 Mr. TOM GOLDSTEIN (Supreme Court Expert): No track record when it comes to abortion, affirmative action , religion, a lot of the hot button social issues that could give rise to a huge nomination fight. 
 
 P. WILLIAMS: A few other points about her: accomplished poker player, opera lover, and, given that nickname that Justice Marshall gave to her, she's five foot 3", Brian. ||||| Senate Republicans pressed Supreme Court nominee Elena Kagan Wednesday on her lack of judicial experience and her support for a policy that once banned military recruiters from some college campuses in her first appearance on Capitol Hill since her nomination earlier this week. 
 
 Following in the tradition of past Supreme Court nominees, Kagan visited the offices of key senators for private meetings lasting about 30 minutes each. Kagan, the U.S. solicitor general, said almost nothing publicly, ignoring questions shouted at her by reporters as she walked through the halls of Congress with four White House officials in tow. 
 
 Most of the five members she has met with so far -- three Democrats and two Republicans -- have said little in detail about their sessions. But Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.), the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee, which will hold Kagan's nomination hearings, said he aired GOP concerns about her lack of judicial experience. 
 
 "She indicated she felt she had the experience to do the job, and she didn't hesitate in that answer," Sessions said after his session with Kagan. If confirmed to replace Justice John Paul Stevens, Kagan would be the only current member of the court who did not previously serve as an appeals court judge. 
 
 Sessions also said he remained concerned about Kagan's criticism of the U.S. military's recruitment efforts at Harvard Law School when she was dean. Kagan signed a legal brief, along with numerous other law schools and professors, defending the right of universities to bar recruiters because of the military's "don't ask, don't tell" policy. 
 
 "That you think you could disagree with a legal policy of the military and that would allow you to in any way inhibit their ability to come to your campus I think indicates some of the dangers of being in the rarefied atmosphere of the academy," Sessions said after the meeting. 
 
 Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell (Ky.) said he was worried Kagan might be a "rubber stamp" for the policies of the Obama administration. 
 
 Democrats, as expected, praised Kagan. After meeting with her, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (Nev.) described Kagan as "the right choice to replace Justice Stevens." He pledged to make her path to the nation's highest court "as smooth as possible." 
 
 Kagan's arrival on Wednesday created a familiar spectacle on Capitol Hill. As occurred after the nominations of John G. Roberts Jr. and Sonia Sotomayor, at the start of each meeting, dozens of reporters and photographers entered the suite of the senator hosting the session. 
 
 While photographers snapped pictures of Kagan sitting beside the senator, reporters shouted questions. Kagan smiled and bobbed her head occasionally, but never said a word except "thank you" to the senator she was meeting with. 
 
 It's not yet clear if Kagan is offering a "repetition of platitudes," the phrase the nominee herself used in a 1995 article to describe how Supreme Court nominees speak to the senators during the confirmation process. Back then, she called for the Senate to explore "the essential rightness -- the legitimacy and the desirability -- of exploring a Supreme Court nominee's set of constitutional views and commitments." 
 
 Nominees generally don't answer such pointed questions, arguing that their answers could prejudice them if they heard a potential case.