Source: Multi-News

Two sources said the rollout would occur once locations deplete the supply of liquid margarine. 
 
 McDonald's did not respond to CNBC's requests for comment. 
 
 Read MoreMcDonald's quietly changes its Quarter Pounder size 
 
 One sign at a Manhattan location says, "We're proud to cook breakfast items on the grill with real butter and we toast our English Muffins, biscuits and bagels with real butter too." 
 
 
 
 The signs are meant to both highlight the "real dairy" addition and warn those who are not able to eat items made with milk products. 
 
 The move is just the latest in a series by the fast food giant aimed at tweaking the way it makes its food as it continues trying to turn around its struggling U.S. business. As part of the overhaul, McDonald's has said it would toast its buns longer, change how it sears and grills its beef, and increase the Quarter Pounder patty size. ||||| Denny’s wants in on the Burger King-McDonald’s mashup burger 
 
 After McDonald's rejected Burger King's proposal for a mashup burger , Denny's recognized a potential business opportunity. 
 
 Burger King very publicly suggested that it "end the beef" with McDonald's by collaborating on a burger in honor of Peace Day on September 21. They took out full-page ads and even set up a website explaining that all " McWhopper " proceeds would benefit a non-profit organization called Peace One Day. 
 
 McDonald's CEO Steve Easterbrook responded the offer on Facebook , rejecting the idea and ending with "A simple phone call will do next time." 
 
 After seeing this, Denny's took to Twitter with a proposal of its own. It wants to combine its own Bacon Slamburger with Burger King's Whopper to make a "Slopper," or something else that sounds a bit more appetizing: 
 
 Denny's isn't the only one trying to get in on Burger King's Peace Day deal. Krystal, an Atlanta-based fast food restaurant that specializes in sliders, also extended an offer to the royal fast food giant via Facebook : 
 
 We'd be honored to join y'all (Burger King and Peace One Day) in continuing your day of peace in Atlanta. We propose working together to create the first tiny square Whopper. (We're partial to the Kropper, the Whystal, or the Tiny King.) 
 
 Burger King has not responded to either offer.