Source: Multi-News

Cato Berntsen Larsen (20 years old) tried to pick up a lost cell phone from the public toilet, but got stuck. 
 
 “I was obviously slim enough to get into it, but not slim enough to get out. I was down there for one hour, and it was very unpleasant”, Larsen says to the local newspaper Drammens Tidende, which was the first news medium to report the story. 
 
 The public toilet is not connected to the sewer. It is an old-fashioned outhouse with a large tank underneath the toilet seat. 
 
 VG meets Larsen outside the local emergency room in Drammen, a city in southern Norway, close to the capital Oslo. 
 
 “It was disgusting as hell. The worst thing I have ever experienced. Animals were down there too. I will never enter a toilet again. Now my body hurts, and I will go home and get some rest”, he tells VG. 
 
 SAVED: Cato Berntsen Larsen. Photo: TERJE BRINGEDAL 
 
 Lost cell phone 
 
 
 
 Larsen explains that a friend of him lost his cell phone into the toilet while using it. The two men quickly agreed that only Larsen was slim enough to have a chance to climb into the tank. 
 
 Seconds later he was standing at the bottom of the tank, with feces up to his thighs. 
 
 “I panicked. I hate confined spaces. It was difficult to move”, he tells VG. 
 
 MARKS: Cato Berntsen Larsen was not seriously wounded, but scratched his shoulder while trying to get up. Photo: TERJE BRINGEDAL 
 
 Out of service 
 
 
 
 His friends called for help. 
 
 “We received an emergency call at 07:58 AM, regarding a man stuck in a toilet tank. We sent a fire truck with four men to the location. It took them about ten minutes to get the man out. The fire personnel had to demolish the toilet. It is now out of service”, Kristin Rødnes at Vestviken emergency central tells VG. 
 
 At the emergency room, Larsen's wounds were cleaned. He also received antibiotic treatment. 
 
 Section manager Kristine Høibraaten in Drammen municipality says that this is the first time anyone has fallen into the toilet tank, after it was installed in the 1990s. 
 
 “The tank is normally emptied only once a year. This is a very sad incident. Normally it shall be very difficult to fall into this toilet”, Høibraaten says. ||||| Cato Berntsen Larsen was able to climb through the toilet seat opening to recover the phone lying at the bottom of the outhouse, but was unable to climb back out again (AFP Photo/Drammen Fire Department) 
 
 Oslo (AFP) - Firemen in Norway came to the rescue Friday of a man who climbed into an outdoor public toilet to retrieve a friend's cell phone, after he got stuck in the tank. 
 
 Cato Berntsen Larsen, 20, was able to climb through the toilet seat opening to recover the phone lying at the bottom of the outhouse, but was unable to climb back out again. 
 
 "First we tried to get the phone with a stick but that didn't work. So I jumped in," he told daily VG. 
 
 "I was down there an hour, I was panicking," he said, adding there were "animals" crawling on his body. 
 
 Overcome by nausea and vomiting, he tried in vain to pull himself of the tank, and which is only emptied once a year, according to VG. 
 
 He ultimately decided to contact the fire brigade to help end his ordeal in the small town of Drammen outside Oslo. 
 
 "It was a fairly easy task for us. We sent a four-man crew with a chainsaw and they cut open the front of the (plastic) toilet," fire brigade spokeswoman Tina Brock told AFP. 
 
 The rescue was a "first" for the local fire brigade, she acknowledged. "It was pretty full down there." 
 
 The phone was not recovered. ||||| A MAN was freed from down a toilet by firemen - after he climbed in to retrieve his pal's mobile phone. 
 
 Dopey Cato Berntsen Larsen, 20, volunteered for the disgusting task because he was thin enough to get inside. 
 
 3 The Norwegian toilet which imprisoned poor Cato 
 
 3 The stinky loon pictured following the unfortunate ordeal 
 
 But he was left stuck with his hands forlornly clutching the rim for an hour unable to clamber out. 
 
 Tattooed Cato explained his friend dropped the phone inside as he tried to text while urinating at Hillside River Park in Drammen, Norway. 
 
 He added: "My friend said I was thinner, and could fetch it. I did not take time to think, and jumped down legs first. 
 
 related stories Latest 'SEXUAL MONSTER' Peeping Tom primary head teacher jailed for using spy pen to record pupils and staff in the toilet CLAW HAMMER STANDOFF Cops threaten to taser hammer-wielding teen on Tube train after he 'smashed up toilet' ‘MAKES ME SICK’ Mum flees pub in tears after she’s ordered to breastfeed her nine-week-old son in disabled TOILET CLUB SEX ATTACK Teenager celebrating her A-level results 'raped at a nightclub toilets at a Pokemon Hunt party' MIGRANT CHILD RAPE CASE Afghan asylum seeker, 22, accused of raping boy, 4, in toilet cubicle at German refugee centre Exclusive 'That poor girl!' Geordie Shore star Gaz Beadle accused of bullying after posting screengrab of fan on the toilet POODUNNIT? CBB's Samantha Fox tells Loose Women Saira Khan had to clean up mystery housemate's diarrhoea Video Bog off Watch the moment daredevil Wolves fan spectacularly fails in attempt to crowd surf inside St Andrews TOILETS 
 
 "I was apparently thin enough to get down, but not thin enough to come up again. 
 
 "It was damn disgusting - the worst ever experience. There were animals down there too. I was bit several times. 
 
 "The sh*t was up to my thighs. I was sick. Then I started panicking because I hate confined spaces and couldn't move." 
 
 Friends called the fire brigade who had to smash the loo to haul him free. 
 
 After being treated for bruising on the arms and disinfected by medics. he said: "I really hurt and am going home to rest. I will never go down a toilet again." 
 
 Fire boss Kare Hoel added: "It was standing room only down the toilet." 
 
 He did retrieve the phone - but it was smashed in the fall. 
 
 Alamy 3 The disgusting incident was reminiscent of the famous toilet scene from Danny Boyle's hit movie Trainspotting (1996) starring Ewan McGregor 
 
 We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368