Source: Multi-News

Story highlights Boko Haram overruns a Nigerian village in pickup trucks, shooting at men 
 
 The insurgents douse houses with gasoline and set them on fire 
 
 They round up women, girls and boys and kidnap them 
 
 News takes days to get out, since telecommunications towers had been destroyed 
 
 Boko Haram insurgents kidnapped at least 185 women and children, and killed 32 people in a raid in northeastern Nigeria this week, local officials and residents said. 
 
 Gunmen in pickup trucks attacked the village of Gumsuri, just north of Chibok, on Sunday, shooting down men before herding women and children together. 
 
 "They gathered the women and children and took them away in trucks after burning most of the village with petrol bombs," a local government official said on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisal. 
 
 News of the attack took four days to emerge because of a lack of communication. Telecommunications towers in the region had been disabled in previous attacks. 
 
 Local officials learned of the attack from residents who fled to Maiduguri, the capital of Borno state, where the officials had moved a year ago to escape Boko Haram attacks. 
 
 The militants stormed the village from two directions, overwhelming local vigilantes who had repelled Boko Haram attacks over the course of the year, said Gumsuri resident Umar Ari, who trekked for four days to Maiduguri. 
 
 ‎"They destroyed almost half the village and took away 185 women, girls and boys," Ari said.‎ 
 
 Resident Modu Kalli said the militants fired heavy machine guns on the village and poured canisters of gasoline on houses before setting them on fire. 
 
 "We lost everything in the attack. I escaped with nothing, save the clothes I have on me," Kalli said. 
 
 Hundreds of residents of Gumsuri continue to arrive in Maiduguri, which has been struggling to accommodate thousands of residents fleeing towns and villages overrun by Boko Haram. 
 
 Cameroon: At least 116 Boko Haram fighters killed 
 
 Meanwhile, the Cameroon military says that it killed at least 116 Boko Haram fighters during a fight in northern Cameroon on Wednesday, near the border with northeastern Nigeria. 
 
 The incident began when the militant group tried to attack the Cameroonian town of Amchide, military spokesman Lt. Col. Didier Badjeck said. 
 
 One Cameroonian soldier was killed, and another was missing after the attack, according to a statement released by Badjeck. Boko Haram destroyed two trucks and stole a third, Badjeck said. 
 
 Badjeck said the military believes its artillery also inflicted unspecified damage to Boko Haram on the Nigerian side of the border during the fight. 
 
 "Our defense forces rigorously fought back this barbaric attack, and forced the enemy to retreat," Cameroonian government spokesman Issa Tchiroma Bakary said. 
 
 "This terrorist group has only one objective: to spread fear and uncertainty amongst our population. But I can assure you that they will be defeated," Bakary said. 
 
 Two months ago, the nearby area of Limani, Cameroon, was the site of a deadly clash between Boko Haram and Cameroonian forces. Eight Cameroonian soldiers and 107 Boko Haram fighters were killed during an attack by the militants that month, Cameroon state-run broadcaster CRTV reported, citing the Cameroonian defense ministry. 
 
 Campaign of violence 
 
 Boko Haram has terrorized northern Nigeria regularly since 2009, attacking police, schools, churches and civilians, and bombing government buildings. 
 
 This month, at least one female Boko Haram suicide bomber killed five people in Maiduguri. Last month, suicide bombings killed nearly 180 people. More than half of the victims died in an attack on a mosque that many suspect Boko Haram was behind. 
 
 The group has targeted mainstream Islam, saying that it does not represent the interests of Nigeria's 80 million Muslims and that it perverts Islam. 
 
 In April, Boko Haram militants drew international condemnation when they kidnapped more than 200 schoolgirls, many of whom they later said they sold into slavery. 
 
 At least 5,000 people have died at Boko Haram's hands, according to a U.S. Congressional Research Service report, making it one of the world's deadliest terrorist organizations. ||||| Boko Haram fighters have killed 32 people and kidnapped scores of others in a northeastern Nigerian village, local officials and a witness said, as a court-martial sentenced 54 soldiers to death for mutiny. 
 
 
 
 Neighbouring Cameroon also said that its troops had killed 116 Boko Haram fighters in a far north region. 
 
 The Nigerian officials, who requested anonymity, said locals in the village of Gumsuri were still counting those abducted in the attack on Sunday in a remote, isolated area in the Borno state, adding that the figure, which included women and children, could pass 100. 
 
 "After killing our youths, the fighters have taken away our wives and daughters," Mukhtar Buba said on Thursday, after fleeing Gumsuri to Maiduguri, the capital of Borno state. 
 
 There are 116 of the assailants dead on Cameroonian territory and undetermined casualties on the Nigerian territory from our artillery fire Cameroonian Army Statement 
 
 Details took four days to emerge because the mobile phone network has largely collapsed in the area roughly 70km south of Maiduguri, and many of the roads are impassable. 
 
 Gamsuri is located on the road that leads to Chibok, where Boko Haram abducted more than 200 girls from a school in April. 
 
 
 
 Speaking about soldiers sentenced to death by firing squad, lawyer Femi Falana, who represents the condemned men, said another 43 soldiers accused of refusing to fight Boko Haram would be tried by a military court. 
 
 
 
 Falana said five men had been acquitted. 
 
 
 
 Nigerian troops regularly complain that they are outgunned by Boko Haram and are not supported with enough ammunition or food. 
 
 Meanwhile in Cameroon, the fighters attacked an army base in Amchide on the border with Nigeria on Wednesday, but soldiers repelled them, inflicting heavy losses, the Cameroon defence ministry said. 
 
 "A column made up of a military truck and four pick-ups from the BIR [elite Rapid Intervention Battalion] were caught in an ambush that began with an explosion of a roadside bomb," the army said. 
 
 "There are 116 of the assailants dead on Cameroonian territory and undetermined casualties on the Nigerian territory from our artillery fire," the statement said. 
 
 "There is one dead on the Cameroonian side and one officer missing." 
 
 
 
 According to the army, the Boko Haram fighters destroyed a pick-up and a troop truck, as well as managing to capture another military truck. 
 
 
 
 Boko Haram, which opposes Western education and has been waging an armed campaign against the government since 2009, has grown in power in the area, where Cameroon and Nigeria are linked by a bridge. 
 
 One of the local Nigerian officials said the Gumsuri had previously been protected against Boko Haram violence by a strong vigilante force, but that they were overpowered in Sunday's attack. 
 
 Vigilante attacks 
 
 "For the past one year, the fighters have made several attempts to attack Gumsuri but were resisted by the gallant youths of the village," he told AFP news agency. 
 
 "It is sad that on Sunday, the village was subdued," he added. 
 
 The military and police were not immediately available for comment. 
 
 Boko Haram has repeatedly attacked the vigilante forces which have formed across the northeast, describing them as legitimate targets for siding with Nigeria's military. 
 
 The other local official said fighters "stormed the village in a convoy of vehicles [armed] with petrol bombs" and heavy weapons. 
 
 Buba, the resident, said more than half the village had been destroyed. 
 
 "The terrorists mercilessly attacked us and killed at will," he told AFP. 
 
 Borno is the epicentre of Boko Haram's five-year uprising aimed at creating a strict Islamic state in northern Nigeria.