Source: Multi-News

The Federal Reserve will spend $45 billion a month to sustain an aggressive drive to keep long-term interest rates low. And it set a goal of keeping a key short-term rate near zero until unemployment drops below 6.5 percent. 
 
 The policies are intended to help an economy that the Fed says is growing only modestly with 7.7 percent unemployment in November. 
 
 The Fed says it will direct the money into long-term Treasurys to replace an expiring bond-purchase program. The new purchases will expand its investment portfolio, which has reached nearly $3 trillion. 
 
 The central bank will continue buying $40 billion a month in mortgage bonds. All told, its monthly bond purchases will remain $85 billion. They are intended to reduce already record-low long-term rates to encourage borrowing and accelerate growth. ||||| The one dissenter in the Fed’s 11-1 decision monetary policy decision today was not a surprise: Jeffrey Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, has broken with his voting colleagues for the eighth time this year — out of eight meetings. 
 
 Lacker “opposed the asset purchase program and the characterization of the conditions under which an exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate,” the Fed said in its post-meeting statement. 
 
 Lacker’s seventh dissent, as we noted here in October, took him into Fed history: He has dissented in more votes as a Fed policymaker more often than he has joined the majority. After Wednesday’s decision, he now has 13 dissents to his name out of 24 votes as a member of the Federal Open Market Committee. (The next-closest dissenter is the Dallas Fed’s Richard Fisher, who opposed the majority in a third of his 22 votes.) 
 
 With his streak of dissents throughout the year, Lacker matches the annual dissent record of former Kansas City Fed President Thomas Hoenig. 
 
 Lacker could see the writing on the wall, and he didn’t like it one bit. Relying on a single indicator of the labor market, such as the unemployment rate, “can easily lead you astray,” he said last month. “It’s important to avoid spurious precision.” 
 
 “Crisp numerical thresholds may work well in the classroom models used to illustrate policy principles, but one or two economic statistics do not always capture the rich array of policy-relevant information about the state of the economy,” he said.