Source: Multi-News

CLOSE The trial case against Paul Manafort over money laundering and tax evasion has entered jury deliberations. Kevin Johnson reports from Alexandria, Va. USA TODAY 
 
 epa06951198 Kevin Downing (L), Jay Nanavati (2-L), Richard Westing (C), Thomas Zehnle (2-R) and Brian Ketcham (L), attorneys representing former US Predisent Donald J. Trump's campaign chairman Paul Manafort, arrive to US District Court for the ongoing Manafort trial in Alexandria, Virginia, USA, 15 August 2018. Manafort is facing over a dozen charges including tax evasion and bank fraud. EPA-EFE/SHAWN THEW ORG XMIT: STX01 (Photo: SHAWN THEW, EPA-EFE) 
 
 ALEXANDRIA, Va. – The jury in the tax and bank fraud trial of Paul Manafort, the former Trump campaign chairman, headed home for the weekend without reaching a verdict. The panel will reconvene Monday. 
 
 A juror sent a note to U.S. District Judge T.S. Ellis III requesting a 5 p.m. recess because of a previously scheduled "event." The nature of the event was not disclosed. Ellis approved the request. 
 
 Earlier on Friday, the judge said he was "optimistic that the case might end soon." 
 
 On Thursday, jurors deliberated for more than six hours and recessed after submitting four questions to Ellis, including a request for a redefinition of "reasonable doubt." 
 
 The panel must determine guilt beyond a reasonable doubt in order to convict Manafort on the 18 counts of tax and bank fraud lodged against him. 
 
 Separately, Ellis raised eyebrows Friday when he revealed that he had received unspecified threats during the trial and is under the protection of U.S. marshals. The judge made the disclosure during a separate hearing in which a coalition of news organizations sought the identities of jurors serving in the Manafort case. 
 
 Because of the intense public interest in the case and the emotion it has generated--including the threats against the 78-year-old jurist – Ellis said he would refuse to release the jurors' identities, at least for now. 
 
 The news organizations also appealed for the release of transcripts of secret bench conferences during the case involving prosecutors and Manafort's attorneys. Ellis said many of those transcripts, with the exception of a discussion about the ongoing investigation by Russia special counsel Robert Mueller, would be made public at the end of the trial. 
 
 Some of the matters, Ellis acknowledged Friday, involved unspecified issues related to the jury. 
 
 More: Manafort trial: Jury asks judge to redefine 'reasonable doubt' during first day of deliberations 
 
 More: Manafort trial: Why 'reasonable doubt' is hard to define in courtrooms 
 
 Prosecutors and defense attorneys have huddled privately numerous times throughout the trial, and only rarely have the contents of those meetings been disclosed. 
 
 He acknowledged the challenge from news organizations Friday, and heard an argument from attorney Matthew Kelley, representing the news organizations. 
 
 "A thirsty press is essential to a free country," Ellis said in open court, after the jury had retired to resume deliberations. 
 
 But much of Friday involved a game of waiting. 
 
 As courthouse employees passed in and out of the courtroom Friday afternoon, reporters played cards and read books and newspapers. A line of photographers and television crews remained stationed out front of the Albert V. Bryan Courthouse. 
 
 More: Five key points that could sway the jury in Paul Manafort's trial — and determine his fate 
 
 More: Paul Manafort trial: Judge T.S. Ellis III known as taskmaster, unafraid to speak his mind 
 
 Manafort is facing life in prison if he's found guilty on all of the 18 counts laid against him. The harshest sentence is likely if he's found guilty in the alleged bank fraud scheme prosecutors outlined during the trial. 
 
 Prosecutors offered documents and witnesses who testified that Manafort lied about his income and debt while seeking bank loans and directed his associates to doctor documents. In all, prosecutors have alleged that Manafort fraudulently secured more than $20 million in bank loans. 
 
 As President Trump was leaving the White House Friday and while jurors were still deliberating, the president attacked the Manafort trial and called it "very sad." He wouldn't discuss whether he'd consider pardoning Manafort if he was found guilty on any counts. 
 
 "When you look at what’s going on there, I think it’s a very sad day for our country," the president said. "He worked for me for a very short period of time. But you know what? He happens to be a very good person. 
 
 Trump added: "And I think it’s very sad what they’ve done to Paul Manafort." 
 
 CLOSE President Donald Trump refused to say whether he would pardon Paul Manafort, calling him a "very good person" as he left the White House for New York. Trump also again called out Turkey, saying the country has been a "problem for a long time." (Aug. 17) AP 
 
 Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2Mi49jX ||||| Paul Manafort's wife Kathleen Manafort, second from right, walks next to Manafort spokesman Jason Maloni, right, as they arrive at federal court for the second day of jury deliberations in the trial of... (Associated Press) 
 
 Paul Manafort's wife Kathleen Manafort, second from right, walks next to Manafort spokesman Jason Maloni, right, as they arrive at federal court for the second day of jury deliberations in the trial of the former Trump camaign chairman, in Alexandria, Va., Friday, Aug. 17, 2018. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn... (Associated Press) 
 
 ALEXANDRIA, Va. (AP) — The judge in former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort's fraud trial refused Friday to release the names of jurors, saying he has received threats and fears for their safety as well. 
 
 U.S. District Judge T.S. Ellis III revealed his concerns in explaining why he doesn't intend to make jurors' names public at the end of the trial, now in the second day of jury deliberations. 
 
 Shortly after the hearing, the jury sent a new note to the judge asking to stop work half an hour early Friday, at 5 p.m., because a juror had an event to attend. 
 
 A coalition of media organizations, including The Associated Press, filed a motion requesting the names of jurors, as well as access to sealed transcripts of bench conferences that have occurred during the three-week trial. 
 
 Jury lists are presumed to be public unless a judge articulates a reason for keeping them secret. 
 
 Eliis said during a hearing Friday afternoon he is concerned for the "peace and safety of the jurors." 
 
 "I've received criticism and threats," Ellis said. "I imagine they would, too." 
 
 The judge said he is currently under the protection of U.S. marshals. He declined to delve into specifics, but said he's been taken aback by the level of interest in the trial. 
 
 Also Friday, President Donald Trump issued a fresh defense of Manafort, calling him a "very good person." 
 
 Manafort is accused of hiding from the IRS millions that he made advising Russia-backed politicians in Ukraine, and then lying to banks to get loans when the money dried up. He faces 18 felony counts on tax evasion and bank fraud. 
 
 "I think the whole Manafort trial is very sad," Trump told reporters at the White House. 
 
 "When you look at what's going on, I think it's a very sad day for our country," he said. "He worked for me for a very short period of time. But you know what, he happens to be a very good person and I think it's very sad what they've done to Paul Manafort." 
 
 The financial fraud trial is the first courtroom test of the ongoing Russia probe led by special counsel Robert Mueller. While allegations of collusion are still being investigated, evidence of bank fraud and tax evasion unearthed during the probe has cast doubt on the integrity of Trump's closest advisers during the campaign. 
 
 But Manafort's fate was far from clear. The case calls on the dozen jurors to follow the complexities of foreign bank accounts and shell companies, loan regulations and tax rules. It exposed details about the lavish lifestyle of the onetime political insider, including a $15,000 jacket made of ostrich leather and $900,000 spent at a boutique retailer in New York via international wire transfer. 
 
 The jury ended its first day of deliberations with a series of questions to the judge, including a request to "redefine" reasonable doubt. 
 
 The questions came after roughly seven hours of deliberation, delivered in a handwritten note to Ellis. 
 
 Along with the question on reasonable doubt, the jury asked about the list of exhibits, rules for reporting foreign bank accounts and the definition of "shelf companies," a term used during the trial to describe some of the foreign companies used by Manafort. 
 
 Ellis told the jurors they need to rely on their collective memory of the evidence to answer most questions. As for reasonable doubt, he described it as "a doubt based on reason" and told jurors it does not require proof "beyond all doubt." 
 
 Manafort's defense countered that he wasn't culpable because he left the particulars of his finances to others. 
 
 "When you follow the trail of Mr. Manafort's money, it is littered with lies," prosecutor Greg Andres said in his final argument earlier this week. 
 
 In his defense, Manafort's attorneys told jurors to question the entirety of the prosecution's case as they sought to tarnish the credibility of Manafort's longtime protege — and government witness — Rick Gates. 
 
 Prosecutors say Manafort earned some $60 million consulting for the Russia-backed political party in Ukraine, and hid at least $16 million in income from the IRS between 2010 and 2014. They say Manafort declared only some of his foreign income on his federal income tax returns and repeatedly failed to disclose millions of dollars that streamed into the U.S. to pay for luxury items, services and property. 
 
 ___ 
 
 AP writers Darlene Superville and Anne Flaherty contributed to this report. 
 
 Online: https://apnews.com/8b1cea8ba9ba49f98e06c77782add2ba