Source: Multi-News

The aim of this study was to investigate the size of the association between deficiencies in social relationships and incident coronary heart disease (CHD) or stroke, the two greatest causes of burden of disease in high-income countries. 10 We conducted a systematic review to answer the following primary question: are deficiencies in social relationships associated with developing CHD and stroke in high-income countries? Our secondary objectives included investigating whether loneliness or social isolation was differentially associated with incident heart disease and stroke, and whether the association between social relationships and disease incidence varied according to age, gender, marital status, socioeconomic position, ethnicity and health. 
 
 Researchers have identified three main pathways through which social relationships may affect health: behavioural, psychological and physiological mechanisms. 3 , 4 Health-risk behaviours associated with loneliness and social isolation include physical inactivity and smoking. 5 Loneliness is linked to lower self-esteem and limited use of active coping methods, 6 while social isolation predicts decline in self-efficacy. 7 Feeling lonely or being socially isolated is associated with defective immune functioning and higher blood pressure. 8 , 9 This evidence suggests that loneliness and social isolation may be important risk factors for developing disease, and that addressing them would benefit public health and well-being. 
 
 Adults who have few social contacts (ie, who are socially isolated) or feel unhappy about their social relationships (ie, who are lonely) are at increased risk of premature mortality. 1 The influence of social relationships on mortality is comparable with well-established risk factors, including physical activity and obesity. 2 Yet, compared with our understanding of these risk factors, we know much less about the implications of loneliness and social isolation for disease aetiology. 
 
 Finally, sensitivity analyses were performed to test whether our overall results were affected by internal study validity and small-study effects. Contour-enhanced funnel plots for asymmetry were drawn using STATA V.12 (Stata Statistical Software: Release 12 [program]. College Station, TX: StataCorp LP, 2011). The limited number and the heterogeneity of studies did not support the use of tests for funnel plot asymmetry. 20 
 
 Potential sources of variation were explored with prespecified subgroup analyses. Since heterogeneity could not be explained and removed based on these analyses, but we deemed studies sufficiently similar to warrant aggregation, we combined results using random effects models. This approach allows for between-study variation, and is consistent with our assumption that the effects estimated in the different studies were not identical, since they investigated different dimensions of social relationships and derived from different populations. 
 
 Patterns identified in the preliminary synthesis were formally investigated. Only papers for which an effect estimate and SE or CI were available (reported in the paper or provided by contacted authors), or could be calculated, contributed to this stage of the analysis. Where several papers reported results from the same cohort, we privileged the findings with the longest follow-up time. If a study included multiple measures of exposure and/or outcome, we selected the result relating to the most comprehensive measure. Where a study used statistical controls to calculate an effect size, we extracted data from the most complex model to minimise risk of confounding. All effect sizes were transformed to the natural log for analyses. Using Revman V.5.3 (Review Manager (RevMan) Version 5.3 [program]. Copenhagen: The Nordic Cochrane Centre, 2014), CHD and stroke effect estimates were plotted in separate forest plots, and heterogeneity between studies was assessed using the I 2 statistic. 
 
 We hypothesised that social relationships were associated with disease incidence, and that this association may differ according to the dimension of relationships measured, and individual-level and contextual-level factors. A preliminary synthesis was developed by grouping study characteristics and results according to their measure of relationships. The majority of papers reported relative hazards of new diagnosis, comparing people with higher versus lower levels of loneliness or social isolation. Since incidence of disease was low (<10%) in the three studies reporting ORs, these estimates were approximated to relative risks. 19 Where the lonely or isolated group was used as the reference, results were transformed to allow comparison across studies. 
 
 Based on the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality framework and taxonomy of threats to validity and precision, 16 we selected the following domains as relevant for assessing studies: sampling bias, non-response bias, missing data, differential loss to follow-up, information error with regard to exposure and outcome measure, detection bias, confounding and study size. We identified age, gender and socioeconomic status as potential confounders (ie, factors correlated with exposure, predictive of outcome and not on the causal pathway). 17 , 18 No studies were excluded due to quality; instead, subgroup and sensitivity analyses were performed, to test the stability of findings according to internal validity. 
 
 After removing duplicates, two researchers independently screened titles and abstracts before assessing full records using a standardised screening sheet. Additional information was sought from authors when necessary (3 (60%) responded). When authors did not reply, we searched for information from related publications to inform our decision. 
 
 To complement the electronic search, we screened reference lists, searched for citations in Scopus (the largest database of abstracts and citations) and contacted topic experts identified through the UK Campaign to End Loneliness’ Research Hub. 
 
 We searched 16 electronic databases for published and grey literature published up until May 2015: MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL Plus, PsycINFO, ASSIA, Web of Science, Cochrane Library, Social Policy and Practice, National Database of Ageing Research, Open Grey, HMIC, ETHOS, NDLTD, NHS Evidence, SCIE and National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE). Thesaurus and free text terms (eg, loneliness, social isolation, social relationships, social support, social network) were combined with filters for observational study designs and tailored to each database. The search strategy included no health terms, as it aimed to capture all disease outcomes, rather than focus on CHD and stroke. For the full electronic strategy used to search MEDLINE, see online supplementary appendix 1. 
 
 To meet inclusion criteria, studies had to investigate new CHD and/or stroke diagnosis at the individual level as a function of loneliness and/or social isolation. We defined CHD as encompassing the diagnoses listed under codes l20–l25 of the 10th revision of the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems (ICD-10), and stroke as ICD-10 codes I60–69. We excluded studies where CHD or stroke diagnosis was not the first instance of diagnosis among participants, except where analyses controlled for previous events. We applied no other exclusion criteria regarding study population. Measures of social relationships met inclusion criteria for loneliness if they were consistent with its definition as a subjective negative feeling associated with someone's perception that their relationships with others are deficient. 13 Measures of social isolation had to be consistent with its definition as a more objective measure of the absence of relationships, ties or contact with others. 14 We focused on longitudinal studies in order to investigate the temporal relationships between loneliness or isolation and subsequent disease. Our purpose was to clarify the public health challenge posed by deficiencies in social relationships in high-income countries, 15 so we excluded all other settings. We applied no language, publication type or date restrictions to inclusion. 
 
 Results 
 
 A total of 23 studies based on 16 cohorts were identified for inclusion in the review, after a two-stage process. See figure 1 for a flow diagram of the study selection process. Eleven studies on CHD and eight studies on stroke met inclusion criteria for the quantitative syntheses (ie, studies based on independent samples reporting data from which the natural log of the estimate and its SE could derived). 
 
 Figure 1 Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) flow diagram. CHD, coronary heart disease. 
 
 Table 1 summarises the descriptive characteristics of the evidence included in our review (see online supplementary appendix 2 for individual study characteristics). 
 
 Supplementary appendix 2 [heartjnl-2015-308790supp_appendix2.pdf] 
 
 Table 1 Characteristics of the included evidence 
 
 Assessment of loneliness and social isolation Prevalence of loneliness or social isolation ranged from 2.8%40 to 77.2%.31 Three papers measured loneliness,21 ,30 ,42 18 measured social isolation22–43 and two papers used a measure combining both dimensions.34 ,35 The three papers on loneliness used different tools: a direct question asking about loneliness feelings during the day,30 a question on feelings of loneliness in the past week42 and a 13-item tool encompassing the perceived availability, adequacy or accessibility of social relationships.21 Across the 18 studies on social isolation, 11 tools were used: six studies used the Berkman–Syme Social Network Index,44 two studies used the 10-item Lubben Social Network Scale45 and the remainder used nine different tools on the availability and/or frequency of contacts. One cohort study used a measure combining social isolation and loneliness, the 11-item Duke Social Support Index, which asks about frequency of interaction and satisfaction with relationships.46 Loneliness and social isolation were predominantly treated as a categorical variable; two studies analysed them as continuous variables.29 ,42 Only one study reported results based on measuring social relationships more than once.42 
 
 Ascertainment of CHD and stroke A total of 4628 CHD and 3002 stroke events were recorded across the 23 papers. Eighteen studies measured incident CHD and 10 measured stroke (five studies reported on both outcomes). Diagnosis was ascertained from medical records, death certificates or national registers in all but four studies. Others used self-report,34 ,35 or telephone interviews with a nurse or physician.33 Two studies verified self-reported events against medical records.29 ,36 ,38 The majority of studies with a measure of CHD focused on myocardial infarction and/or CHD death (11/18). Four studies included angina pectoris within their measure of CHD and two presented results for angina separately. The remit of the CHD measure was unclear in one study.43 
 
 Study validity Figure 2 summarises risk of bias across the studies included in our review (see online supplementary appendix 3 for details of criteria). For many of the instruments assessing social relationships, information on reliability and validity was limited (online supplementary appendix 4 displays detailed information on the validity and reliability of tools). Four cohorts (six articles) relied on subjects reporting new diagnosis for all or part of the outcomes measured, and were judged to be at greater risk of misclassification (see online supplementary appendix 2 for details of outcome assessment). Limited information on attrition and blinding of outcome assessment meant that susceptibility to differential loss to follow-up and detection bias was unclear. We note that the multiplicity of risk factors investigated and the differential length of follow-up suggest that outcome assessment is unlikely to have been influenced by knowledge of baseline information on social relationships. Supplementary appendix 3 [heartjnl-2015-308790supp_appendix3.pdf] Supplementary appendix 4 [heartjnl-2015-308790supp_appendix4.pdf] Figure 2 Internal validity. NA, not applicable. The results reported in 12 papers were at lower risk of confounding, that is, analyses controlled or accounted for age, gender and socioeconomic status.21 ,22 ,27 ,28 ,30 ,33 ,36 ,37 ,39 ,40 ,42 ,43 Four studies presented results from univariate analyses,31 ,34 ,35 ,41 with a further study adjusting for age only.26 The remaining eight reports did not control for socioeconomic status, although in the case of the Health Professionals Follow-up Study the relative socioeconomic homogeneity of the sample may limit the impact of this omission.22 ,24 
 
 Loneliness, social isolation and CHD Across 11 studies (3794 events; one study did not report numbers) based on independent samples, the average relative risk of new CHD when comparing high versus low loneliness or social isolation was 1.29 (95% CI 1.04 to 1.59; see figure 3). We found evidence of heterogeneity within this comparison (I2=66%, χ2=29.16, df=10, p=0.001) and explored whether this could be explained by social relationship domain (loneliness vs social isolation), gender, risk of confounding and higher risk of bias due to exposure measurement error. We found no evidence that effects differed according to each subgroup (see online supplementary appendix 5). We were not able to explore other potential sources of heterogeneity due to limited information and study numbers. Supplementary appendix 5 [heartjnl-2015-308790supp_appendix5.pdf] Figure 3 Forest plot of studies investigating incident CHD. CHD, coronary heart disease. 
 
 Social isolation and stroke Across nine independent study samples (2577 events; one study did not report numbers), the average relative risk of stroke incidence was 1.32 (95% CI 1.04 to 1.68; see figure 4). Following confirmation of heterogeneity (I2=53%, χ2=17.07, df=8, P=0.03) we performed subgroup analyses according to risk of confounding and risk of bias due to outcome measurement error (there were too few studies to perform any other analyses). There was no evidence of effects differing according to subgroup (see online supplementary appendix 6); we had insufficient information to explore other potential sources of heterogeneity. Supplementary appendix 6 [heartjnl-2015-308790supp_appendix6.pdf] Figure 4 Forest plot of studies investigating incident stroke. 
 
 Risk of bias across studies To test whether our findings were sensitive to internal study validity, we compared results with and without studies at greater risk of bias. We found no evidence of a difference in the ratio of the relative risks for CHD and stroke according to study validity (see table 2). Table 2 Sensitivity analyses Visual assessment of contour-enhanced funnel plots suggested that studies might be missing in areas of statistical significance (see figure 5A, B). Comparing fixed-effects and random-effects estimates, we found the random-effects estimate to be more beneficial (CHD: relative risk (RR) random-effects: 1.29, 95% CI 1.04 to 1.59, compared with RR fixed-effects: 1.18, 95% CI 1.06 to 1.31; stroke: RR, random-effects: 1.32, 95% CI 1.04 to 1.68, compared with RR fixed-effects: 1.19, 95% CI 1.03 to 1.36). This suggests the presence of small-study effects, which could be due to reporting bias. Although we found no evidence that study quality and true heterogeneity explained small-study effects in our review, these, along with chance, remain possible explanations. Figure 5 (A) Contour-enhanced funnel plot, coronary heart disease studies. (B) Contour-enhanced funnel plot, stroke studies. ||||| Photo 
 
 Loneliness may make you sick. 
 
 Researchers, writing in the journal Heart, pooled data from 23 studies and found that social isolation or feelings of loneliness were tied to an increased risk for coronary heart disease and stroke. 
 
 The studies included data from 181,006 men and women 18 and older. There were 4,628 coronary events and 3,002 strokes in follow-up periods ranging from three to 21 years. Three of the papers measured loneliness, 18 looked at social isolation and two included both. Social isolation and loneliness were determined with questionnaires; the researchers depended on medical records and death certificates for determining coronary events and stroke. 
 
 The scientists found that loneliness and social isolation increased the relative risk of having a heart attack, angina or a death from heart disease by 29 percent, and the risk of stroke by 32 percent. There were no differences between men and women. 
 
 “People have tended to focus from a policy point of view at targeting lonely people to make them more connected,” said the lead author, Nicole K. Valtorta, a research fellow at the University of York in England. “Our study shows that if this is a risk factor, then we should be trying to prevent the risk factor in the first place.” 
 
 The authors acknowledge that this was a review of observational studies and did not establish cause and effect. ||||| The Backstreet Boys asked and science answered: Being lonely means an increased risk for coronary heart disease. 
 
 That loneliness and social isolation could be risk factors for disease and death is an idea that has been brewing in the scientific community for some time now. In 2006, a JAMA study found social isolation in childhood may increase the risk for cardiovascular disease in adulthood. A couple years later, at Ohio State University, researchers found that social isolation, in mice anyway, makes strokes more deadly. The team conducted a second study in 2010 and found having no contact with friends or family can worsen the brain damages caused by a heart attack. Then, in 2015, Brigham Young University put it plainly: The prescription for living longer is to spend less time alone. 
 
 While experts have started to suspect loneliness negatively affects heart health, new research published today in the journal Heart argues that the topic has yet to be widely studied. Study co-author Nicole Valtorta, research fellow at the University of York, told Medical Daily that the existing literature her team reviewed focused more on how weakened social relationships increase risk for mortality overall. “It didn’t tell us if people who felt lonely were at increased risk of developing disease once they were in ill health,” she said. “We wanted to bring together the information of all the studies we could find and see what comes of it.” 
 
 Valtorta and her colleagues at York and the universities of Liverpool and Newcastle combed through 1 6 research databases for studies that investigated new cases of heart disease and stroke at the individual level as a function of loneliness, social isolation, or both. To measure for social aspects, the team put in place criteria for each term: Loneliness is the negative feeling a person has when she thinks her relationships are deficient, Valtorta said. A lonely person could be surrounded by lots of people and still be unhappy. Social isolation, on the other hand, is when a person is not in contact with anyone, including his friends and family. 
 
 The researchers chose 23 studies for analysis, ultimately including more than 181,000 adults. And the results showed that loneliness and social isolation was associated with a 29 percent increased risk of a heart attack or episode of chest pain and a 32 percent heightened risk of having a stroke. The two had a greater effect on heart health than general anxiety and job stress, the team wrote. 
 
 That said, this was an observational study, meaning Valtorta can’t rule out potential, unmeasured factors or reverse causation. For example, is it feeling like you’re alone that hurts your heart or is it an undiagnosed disease that promotes social isolation? At this point, it would be unethical to lean any one way, Valtorta said, but she does believe her findings are enough to start informing clinical practice. 
 
 “We need more studies, but little by little the evidence is growing,” she said. 
 
 In an accompanying editorial, doctors Julianne Holt-Lunstad and Timothy Smith of Brigham Young University, the authors of the 2015 study that prescribed spending less time alone, argue that Valtorta’s study is the latest to show that “loneliness and isolation bolster the already robust evidence documenting that social connections significantly predict morbidity and mortality, supporting the case for inclusion as a risk factor for cardiovascular disease.” 
 
 The World Health Organization does list social support networks as one of its determinants of health, as do other major organizations specific to heart disease. But this inclusion should extend to medical education, individual risk assessment, and the guidelines and policies applied to populations and the delivery of health services, the doctors wrote. "Given projected increases in levels of social isolation and loneliness in Europe and North America, medical science needs to squarely address the ramifications for physical health.” 
 
 Holt-Lunstad told Medical Daily that experts have been worried about the implications of reduced social network size in both the United Kingdom and United States. The average size of Americans’ core discussions networks has declined since 1985, according to the Pew Internet Personal Networks and Community survey : The average size dropped by about one-third, or a loss of approximately one friend, a small to modest change. And in 2014, the Independent Age and the International Longevity Center predicted that social isolation among the elderly population could reach epidemic proportions by 2030. Young people are at risk too: New Scientist has written that adults ages 18 to 24 report feeling more lonely than they have in the past. 
 
 Some sociologist believe new technology, like the internet and social media, have advanced the trend, while the Pew survey found that internet users were 55 percent more likely to talk to people they weren’t related to and that in-person contact remains Americans’ dominant means of communication. 
 
 Which leads back to Valtorta’s initial idea: We simply need more research. 
 
 “I was surprised by the scarcity of the data. We don’t really have much to refer to,” she said. “We compared people who are lonely to people who weren’t lonely, and people who were socially isolated and not.” But her study doesn’t have all the answers, she added. “It doesn’t tell us: if you’re lonely, and you try to change that, will it benefit your health?” 
 
 Sources: Valtorta NK et al. Loneliness and Social Isolation As Risk Factors For Coronary Heart Disease and Stroke: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Longitudinal Observational Studies. Heart. 2016. 
 
 Holt-Lunstad J, Smith TB. Loneliness and Social Isolation As Risk Factors For CVD: implications For Evidence-Based Patient Care and Scientific Inquiry. Heart. 2016. ||||| Researchers say analysis backs up public health concerns about importance of social contacts for health and wellbeing 
 
 Loneliness and social isolation have been linked to a 30% increase in the risk of having a stroke or coronary artery disease, the two major causes of death and illness in wealthy societies. 
 
 In findings which compared the effects of loneliness with recognised risk factors, such as anxiety and a stressful job, researchers said that their analysis backed up public health concerns about the importance of social contacts for health and wellbeing. 
 
 Loneliness had already been linked to a compromised immune system, high blood pressure and premature death, but its potential effect on heart disease and stroke risk has remained unclear. 
 
 Previous studies involving more than 181,000 adults were scrutinised by the researchers, whose findings have been published online in the journal Heart. 
 
 The pooled data showed that loneliness and social isolation was associated with a 29% increased risk of a heart or angina attack and a 32% heightened risk of having a stroke. 
 
 The researchers, from the universities of York, Liverpool and Newcastle, stress that their study was observational and that firm conclusions cannot be drawn about cause and effect, as well as pointing out that it wasn’t possible to exclude the potential effect of other unmeasured factors. 
 
 However, they state: “Our work suggests that addressing loneliness and social isolation may have an important role in the prevention of two of the leading causes of morbidity in high-income countries.” 
 
 They noting that a variety of interventions directed at loneliness and social isolation have already been been developed, ranging from group initiatives such as educational programmes and social activities, to one-to-one approaches including befriending and cognitive-behavioural therapy. 
 
 “These have primarily focused on secondary prevention, targeting people identified as isolated or lonely, but their effectiveness is unclear. Evaluative research is needed to investigate their impact on a range of health outcomes,” they add. 
 
 Reacting to the study, the British Heart Foundation (BHF) said that while it suggested a physiological link between loneliness and heart health problems, it was not a clear one and much more research was needed to understand if there truly was a relationship between the two. 
 
 
 
 Christopher Allen, a senior cardiac nurse for the BHF, said: “Social isolation is a serious issue that affects many thousands of people across the UK. We know that loneliness, and having few social contacts, can lead to poor lifestyle habits such as smoking, which can increase your risk of heart disease and stroke. 
 
 He added earlier research, which the BHF had funded, had shown an association between social isolation and increased risk of dying. 
 
 
 
 A linked editorial which is also published in Heart argued for the inclusion of social factors in medical education, individual risk assessment, and in guidelines and policies applied to populations and the delivery of health services. 
 
 Its authors, Dr Julianne Holt-Lunstad and Dr Timothy Smith of Brigham Young University, Utah, US, said that one of the greatest challenges would be how to design effective interventions to boost social connections, taking account of technology. 
 
 “With such rapid changes in the way people are interacting socially, empirical research is needed to address several important questions,” they write. “Does interacting socially via technology reduce or replace face to face social interaction and/or alter social skills?”