Source: Multi-News

Congratulations to Rand Paul and his campaign--this was a big win. But it might not be quite as meaningful as it's being made out to be. There was a lot about it that was specific to Kentucky politics, and just because a Tea Partier won in Kentucky, doesn't necessarily mean the Tea Party will fare as well elsewhere this fall. Here are six things to consider: 
 
 1) Kentucky has a closed GOP primary. Conservatives were willing to support a Tea Party candidate--but we don't yet know if indies and Dems will be, here or elsewhere. 
 
 2) Kentucky's GOP is split into factions. Last night's results showed only that the Paul/Bunning wing was stronger than the McConnell/ Fletcher wing. 
 
 3) Paul's celebrity dad brought him money, volunteers, name recognition, and media attention, particularly on Fox News. What other Tea Party candidate can match that? 
 
 
 
 4) It was well known among Kentucky GOPers that Trey Grayson was a Bill Clinton supporter and volunteer, and a member of the Harvard College Democrats. 
 
 5) The Grayson family were notable Democratic fundraisers until they sensed the climate shifting in northern Kentucky, and the whole state shifting toward the GOP. They're not beloved. 
 
 6) Grayson's political maneuvering backfired disastrously. He was a Bunning protege, then stabbed his patron in the back by forming an exploratory committee before Bunning dropped out. Bunning then endorsed Paul. Nobody likes a man in a hurry. 
 
 UPDATE: Bonus 7) Democratic turnout was much, MUCH higher than Republican turnout. 
 
 
 
 We want to hear what you think about this article. Submit a letter to the editor or write to letters@theatlantic.com. ||||| Rand Paul appears to have clinched the GOP's nomination for Kentucky’s open Senate seat. Rand Paul tapped into 'anger' 
 
 BOWLING GREEN, Ky. — Rand Paul, the first-time candidate for elective office who has emerged as a symbol of the national tea party's clout in Republican politics, appears to have clinched the GOP's nomination for this state's open Senate seat — in a victory certain to jolt the political order in Kentucky and across the country. 
 
 The 47-year-old Bowling Green ophthalmologist — who until last year was best known for being the son of Rep. Ron Paul (R-Texas) and whose staunch libertarian views have spawned a national grass-roots following — knocked out Trey Grayson, the Kentucky secretary of state, who had been the favorite of this state's political heavyweights, most notably Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell. 
 
 Story Continued Below 
 
 "I have a message, a message from the tea party, a message that is loud and clear and does not mince words: We have come to take our government back," declared Paul, with his parents and the rest of his family by his side, to roaring supporters at a posh country club here in his hometown. 
 
 With his attention-grabbing views railing against Washington and its ballooning budget deficits, the fire-breathing Paul successfully connected with this state's furious Republican primary voters, something that the more subdued Grayson was unable to accomplish in the fight to replace retiring two-term GOP Sen. Jim Bunning. 
 
 "The electorate is pissed," said Mike Shea, a longtime political adviser to McConnell. "Rand did a really good job of tapping into those themes and tapping into that anger. Trey is a nice guy, but in his commercials and everything else, he seemed completely unable to generate any kind of dialogue to indicate he was tapping into that. If you meet him, he didn't seem like he was angry." 
 
 With 99 percent of the precincts reporting, Paul appeared poised to seize a huge victory — leading Grayson by 59 percent to 35 percent. The Associated Press projected that Paul would win the race. 
 
 A packed crowd here at the Bowling Green Country Club let out a loud cheer when the AP projected the race for Paul. 
 
 But many of the Paul supporters had expected nothing less than resounding victory. 
 
 "I kind of expected it actually," said Brent Young, a 45-year-old tea party activist who works with a local firm researching swine production. "I've really been a big supporter of his dad, and I really hope he can be elected in November. Time will tell, but we really do think he's a different kind of politician — and hopefully [he'll] send a message to the GOP that we want something different." 
 
 Paul will face state Attorney General Jack Conway on Nov. 2. Conway narrowly defeated Lt. Gov. Daniel Mongiardo in the battle for the Democratic nomination. Conway's views are more in line with the Democratic base's positions, and he was seen by national Democrats as a safer choice.