Source: Multi-News

Pope Francis joined the—now truly #blessed—Instagram community on Saturday, posting his first photo on the popular app. 
 
 “Pray for me,” the caption says, repeated in eight other languages. The photo, posted with the handle @franciscus, shows Francis kneeling with his head bowed in prayer. 
 
 “I am beginning a new journey, on Instagram, to walk with you along the path of mercy and the tenderness of God,” Francis posted on Saturday on Twitter, where he has more than 8.89 million followers. 
 
 “Watching Pope Francis post his first photo to Instagram today was an incredible moment. @franciscus, welcome to the Instagram community! Your messages of humility, compassion and mercy will leave a lasting mark,” Instagram CEO and co-founder Kevin Systrom posted on Instagram on Saturday. 
 
 The Brief Newsletter Sign up to receive the top stories you need to know right now. View Sample Sign Up Now 
 
 Systrom met with Pope Francis at the Vatican last month to discuss the unifying power of images, giving him a curated book of Instagram photos during the visit. 
 
 Write to Katie Reilly at Katie.Reilly@time.com. ||||| Pope Francis hit one million Instagram followers within 12 hours of launching his account. 
 
 Pope Francis' new account was christened on Saturday with a photo of him kneeling in prayer. The accompanying message said "pray for me" in 9 languages. It was not a selfie. 
 
 His new account broke a record for getting one million followers -- the previous record was 24 hours held by David Beckham. 
 
 The Pope's Instagram handle is "Franciscus." While the account will be separate from the official Vatican account, it will be maintained by members of the Vatican -- his Twitter account is also maintained by other people. 
 
 News of the Pope's plans to join Instagram broke Thursday and came just weeks after his meeting with Instagram CEO Kevin Systrom. 
 
 During their meeting in late February, the two discussed "the power of images to unite people across different cultures and languages." They also talked about the possibility that the Pope would join the image-based social media platform, according to a spokesperson from Instagram. 
 
 Related: Apple CEO Time Cook met with Pope Francis at the Vatican 
 
 Systrom was on hand when the Pope's first Instagram photo went live. 
 
 Pray for me Rezad por mí Pregate per me صلوا من أجلي Priez pour moi Módlcie się za mnie Rezem por mim Betet für mich Orate pro me A photo posted by Pope Francis (@franciscus) on Mar 19, 2016 at 4:24am PDT 
 
 The CEO also commemorated the moment with a photo -- of him shaking hands with the Pope. 
 
 Watching Pope Francis post his first photo to Instagram today was an incredible moment. @franciscus, welcome to the Instagram community! Your messages of humility, compassion and mercy will leave a lasting mark. A photo posted by Kevin Systrom (@kevin) on Mar 19, 2016 at 4:33am PDT 
 
 He included this message: "Watching Pope Francis post his first photo to Instagram today was an incredible moment. @franciscus, welcome to the Instagram community! Your messages of humility, compassion and mercy will leave a lasting mark." 
 
 Saturday's post comes on the third anniversary of Pope Francis' papal inauguration. 
 
 His time as Pope has been marked by an embrace of social media as a way to communicate with Catholic followers around the world. 
 
 Joining Instagram was a particularly smart move since, according to a spokesperson, the platform has been quickly gaining popularity in countries with a large Catholic presence such as Mexico, France, Italy and Brazil. 
 
 And users were engaging with the Pope on the platform long before he launched his account. According to Instagram, his visit to the U.S. in the fall of 2015 generated 21 million posts, likes and comments from nine million people. ||||| Tweet with a location 
 
 You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more