Source: Multi-News

Stormy Daniels's attorney Michael Avenatti said Michael Cohen has several audio recordings of President Trump Donald John TrumpAustralian prime minister Malcolm Turnbull ousted by party rivals CNN's Cuomo clashes with Kellyanne Conway over Cohen hush-money payments Lawmaker who pushed to impeach Nixon: Trump ‘systematically’ abusing power MORE discussing women who have come forward after allegedly having affairs with Trump. 
 
 The New York Times reported Friday that Cohen, a longtime lawyer and fixer for Trump, secretly recorded Trump discussing paying Playboy model Karen McDougal ahead of the 2016 election to keep her from talking about their alleged relationship more than a decade earlier. 
 
 ADVERTISEMENT 
 
 Avenatti told MSNBC on Friday that there are more tapes. 
 
 “I know for a fact that this is not the only tape,” Avenatti said. "I think this is a very serious matter and I think that any or all audio tapes that Michael Cohen has in his possession relating to this president should be released for the public.” 
 
 "There are multiple audio recordings, and our position is that they should be released immediately. So again, the American people can decide what the next steps are. Period." 
 
 
 
 – @MichaelAvenatti tells @mitchellreports pic.twitter.com/nivEFYYJ2J — MSNBC (@MSNBC) July 20, 2018 
 
 Avenatti said the FBI is already in possession of the tapes after they raided Cohen’s home, office and hotel room in April as part of a criminal investigation into his business dealings. 
 
 “There’s nothing that’s stopping Michael Cohen from releasing the audio recordings that he made between him and the president concerning my client, Ms. McDougal, and others,” Avenatti said. 
 
 And there is a reason why I used the term that I did and demanded the release of the #TrumpTapes as opposed to the #TrumpTape. If Michael Cohen is a patriot, then ALL of the tapes should be released to the American people. Now. Too much is at stake. #Basta — Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) July 20, 2018 
 
 Rudy Giuliani, a member of Trump's legal team, said in The New York Times article that McDougal, a former model who says she had a yearlong affair with Trump shortly after he married first lady Melania Trump Melania TrumpHypocrisy charge against Trump over in-laws’ citizenship is wrong Trump asks State to look at ‘large scale killings of farmers,’ prompting furious South Africa response The Memo: Cohen, Manafort hurricane hits Trump MORE, was never paid the amount in question. 
 
 Giuliani said the recording about McDougal is less than two minutes long and shows Trump did nothing wrong, according to the Times. 
 
 Trump told Cohen in the recorded conversation to make a potential payment in the form of a check so it could be documented, Giuliani said in the article. 
 
 “In the big scheme of things, it’s powerful exculpatory evidence,” Giuliani said. 
 
 Trump has denied the allegations from McDougal and Daniels. 
 
 McDougal is suing the owner of the National Enquirer, saying the company paid her $150,000 for a story about the alleged affair but then withheld it from publication. 
 
 Daniels, the adult-film star whose real name is Stephanie Clifford and who also says she had an affair with Trump more than a decade ago, was paid $130,000 by Cohen days before the 2016 presidential election. Giuliani revealed earlier this year that Trump reimbursed Cohen for the payment, despite the president previously denying that he had any knowledge of it. 
 
 Daniels is suing both Trump and Cohen for libel after denying her claims of an affair. ||||| Tweet with a location 
 
 You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more