Source: Multi-News

NICE, France (Reuters) - French authorities were trying to determine on Friday whether a Tunisian who killed at least 84 people by plowing a truck into Bastille Day crowds had acted alone or with accomplices, but said the attack bore the hallmarks of Islamist militants. 
 
 Thursday night’s attack in the Riviera city of Nice plunged France into new grief and fear just eight months after gunmen killed 130 people in Paris. Those attacks, and one in Brussels four months ago, shocked Western Europe, already anxious over security challenges from mass immigration, open borders and pockets of Islamist radicalism. 
 
 The truck zigzagged along the city’s seafront Promenade des Anglais as a fireworks display marking the French national day ended. It careered into families and friends listening to an orchestra or strolling above the Mediterranean beach towards the century-old grand Hotel Negresco. 
 
 At least 10 children were among the dead. Of the scores of injured, 25 were on life support, authorities said on Friday. 
 
 Witness Franck Sidoli said he had watched people mown down before the truck finally stopped just five meters away from him. 
 
 “A woman was there, she lost her son. Her son was on the ground, bleeding,” he told Reuters at the scene. 
 
 The driver, 31-year-old Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel, was shot dead by officers at the scene. He was known to police for petty crimes but was not on a watch list of suspected militants. He had one criminal conviction, for road rage, and was sentenced to probation three months ago for throwing a wooden pallet at another driver. 
 
 The investigation “will try to determine whether he benefited from accomplices,” Paris prosecutor Francois Molins said. “It will also try to find out whether Mohamed Laouaiej Bouhlel had ties to Islamist terrorist organizations.” 
 
 “Although yesterday’s attack has not been claimed, this sort of thing fits in perfectly with calls for murder from such terrorist organizations,” Molins added. 
 
 Bouhlel’s ex-wife was in police custody, Molins said. He had three children. Police found one pistol and various fake weapons in his truck. 
 
 French Prime Minister Manuel Valls told the evening news that Bouhlel was “one way or another” linked to radical Islam. “Yes, it is a terrorist act and we shall see what links there are with terrorist organizations.” 
 
 Yet despite numerous French officials from President Francois Hollande down describing it as a terrorist attack, by nightfall on Friday officials still had not disclosed any direct evidence linking Bouhlel with extremists. 
 
 Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve, asked if he could confirm the attacker’s motives were linked to jihadism, said: “No. ... We have an individual who was not known to intelligence services for activities linked to jihadism.” 
 
 A U.S. official familiar with Washington’s assessment said the attack was thought to have been carried out by a “lone wolf” inspired but not directed by Islamic State. 
 
 The former top terrorism investigator for the French judicial system said that while the attack fits the profile of the kind undertaken by militant groups, the available evidence suggests the attacker had no evident connection with militant organizations or ideology. 
 
 Jean-Louis Bruguiere, formerly the top Paris-based investigative magistrate handling terrorism-related cases, told Reuters no French or European intelligence or security agency had any trace on the suspect and no evidence has surfaced to connect him to any militant group or other suspects or even to casual contact with militant literature or propaganda. 
 
 He said so far there is no evidence Bouhlel had any association with any religious group or faction but that there was evidence he was estranged from his family and going through some kind of divorce. 
 
 DRIED BLOOD, SMASHED STROLLERS 
 
 Dawn broke on Friday with pavements smeared with dried blood. Smashed strollers, an uneaten baguette and other debris were strewn about. Small areas were screened off and what appeared to be bodies covered in blankets were visible. 
 
 The truck was still where it had come to rest, its windscreen riddled with bullets. 
 
 “I saw this enormous white truck go past at top speed,” said Suzy Wargniez, 65, who had watched from a cafe on the promenade. 
 
 At Nice’s Pasteur hospital, medical staff were treating large numbers of injured. Waiting for friends being operated on was 20-year-old Fanny. 
 
 “The truck pushed me to the side. When I opened my eyes I saw faces I didn’t know and started asking for help,” she told Reuters. “Some of my friends were not so lucky. They are having operations as we speak.” 
 
 Neighbors in the neighborhood in northern Nice where Bouhlel lived described him as handsome but an unsettling presence. 
 
 “I would say he was someone who was pleasing to women,” said neighbor Hanan, standing in the lobby of the apartment building where Bouhlel lived. “But he was frightening. He didn’t have a frightening face, but ... a look. He would stare at the children a lot.” 
 
 Bouhlel’s Tunisian home town Msaken is about 10 km (six miles) outside the coastal city of Sousse, where a gunman killed 38 people, mostly British holidaymakers, on a beach a year ago. Many people from the area have moved to France, including Nice, and money they send back has made it comparatively prosperous. 
 
 A former neighbor in Msaken told Reuters Bouhlel had left for France in 2005 after getting married, and had worked as a driver. 
 
 Relatives and neighbors in Msaken said Bouhlel was sporty and had shown no sign of being radicalized, including when he last returned for the wedding of a sister four years ago. 
 
 A nephew, Ibrahim, said he had called three days ago saying he was preparing a trip back for a family party. Bouhlel’s brother, Jabeur, said he doubted his sibling was the attacker. 
 
 “Why would my brother do something like this?” he told Reuters, adding: “We’ve been calling him since yesterday evening but he’s not responding.” 
 
 Investigators continue to work at the scene near the heavy truck that ran into a crowd at high speed killing scores who were celebrating the Bastille Day July 14 national holiday on the Promenade des Anglais in Nice, France, July 15, 2016. REUTERS/Eric Gaillard 
 
 GRITTY METROPOLIS 
 
 Nice, a city of 350,000, has a history as a flamboyant aristocratic resort but is also a gritty metropolis, where Islamist radicalism has brewed, away from the scenic streets of its old town. It and the surrounding Alpes-Maritimes region, with a population of just over a million, are thought to have produced as many as 10 percent of the French citizens who have traveled to wage jihad in the Middle East. 
 
 After Thursday’s attack, a state of emergency imposed across France after the November attacks in Paris was extended by three months and military and police reservists were to be called up. 
 
 “France is filled with sadness by this new tragedy,” Hollande said in a dawn address that called it an act of terrorism. 
 
 Nice-Matin journalist Damien Allemand had been watching the firework display when the truck tore by. After taking cover in a cafe, he wrote on his paper’s website of what he saw: “Bodies every five meters, limbs ... Blood. Groans.” 
 
 “The beach attendants were first on the scene. They brought water for the injured and towels, which they placed on those for whom there was no more hope.” 
 
 Police carried out a controlled explosion on a white van near the home, blowing the doors open and leaving shattered glass all around. It was not clear what they found. 
 
 CRITICISM 
 
 With presidential and parliamentary elections less than a year away, French opposition politicians seized on what they described as security failings that made it possible for the truck to career 2 km (1.5 miles) through large crowds before it was finally halted. 
 
 Christian Estrosi, a security hardliner who was mayor of Nice until last month and is now president of the wider Riviera region, had written on the eve of the attack to Hollande to demand more funding for police. 
 
 “As far as I’m concerned, I demand answers, and not the usual stuff,” Estrosi told BFM TV hours after the attack, questioning whether the government had provided enough national police officers for the fireworks display. 
 
 France is a major part of a U.S.-led mission conducting air strikes and special forces operations against Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, and has also sent troops to West Africa to battle Islamist insurgents. 
 
 “We will further strengthen our actions in Syria and Iraq,” Hollande said, calling the tragedy - on the day France marks the 1789 revolutionary storming of the Bastille prison in Paris - an attack on liberty by fanatics who despised human rights. 
 
 “We are facing a battle that will be long because facing us is an enemy that wants to continue to strike all people and all countries that have values like ours,” he said. 
 
 France is home to the European Union’s biggest Muslim population, mostly descended from immigrants from North African former colonies. It maintains a secular culture that allows no place for religion in schools and civic life, which supporters say encourages a common French identity but critics say contributes to alienation in some communities. 
 
 The Paris attack in November was the bloodiest among a number in France and Belgium in the past two years. On Sunday, a weary nation had breathed a sigh of relief that the month-long Euro 2016 soccer tournament had ended without serious incident. 
 
 Slideshow (25 Images) 
 
 Four months ago, Belgian Islamists linked to the Paris attackers killed 32 people in Brussels. Recent weeks have also seen major attacks in Bangladesh, Turkey and Iraq. 
 
 U.S. President Barack Obama condemned what he said “appears to be a horrific terrorist attack”. In televised remarks he later said the United States would stand with France and keep up the fight against Islamic State: “We will not be deterred. We will not relent.” 
 
 On social media, Islamic State supporters celebrated the high death toll and posted a series of images, one showing a beach purporting to be that of Nice with white stones arranged to read “IS is here to stay” in Arabic. ||||| In this video grab taken Thursday July 14, 2016, a policeman chase people out of the cordoned-off area after a truck drove on to the sidewalk and plowed through a crowd of revelers who’d gathered to watch... (Associated Press) 
 
 NICE, France (AP) — A truck loaded with weapons and hand grenades drove onto a sidewalk for more than a mile, plowing through Bastille Day revelers who'd gathered to watch fireworks in the French resort city of Nice late Thursday. At least 77 people were killed before police killed the driver, authorities said. 
 
 Nice prosecutor Jean-Michel Pretre described a horrific scene, with bodies strewn about along the roadway and Sylvie Toffin, a press officer with the local prefecture, said the truck ran over people on a "long trip" down the sidewalk near Nice's Palais de la Mediterranee, a building that fronts the beach. 
 
 Wassim Bouhlel, a Nice native who spoke to the AP nearby, said that he saw a truck drive into the crowd. "There was carnage on the road," he said. "Bodies everywhere." 
 
 The Paris prosecutor's office opened an investigation for "murder, attempted murder in an organized group linked to a terrorist enterprise." 
 
 The ranking politician of the Alpes-Maritime department that includes Nice said the truck plowed into the crowd over a distance of 2 kilometers (1.2 miles), killing 77 people and wounding 50. Many of those on the ground were in shorts and other summer clothing. 
 
 Eric Ciotti said on BFM TV that police killed the driver "apparently after an exchange of gunfire." 
 
 The president of the Provence Alpes Côte d'Azur regional council, which includes Nice, said the truck was loaded with arms and grenades. Christian Estrosi told BFM TV that "the driver fired on the crowd, according to the police who killed him." 
 
 Bouhlel said he witnessed the man emerge with a gun and start shooting. 
 
 Images being broadcast across French media showed revelers running for their lives down Nice's palm tree-lined Promenade des Anglais, the famous seaside boulevard named for the English aristocrats who proposed its construction in the 19th century. 
 
 Video footage showed men and women — one or two pushing strollers — racing to get away from the scenes. And, in what appeared to be evidence of a gun battle, photos showed a truck with at least half a dozen bullet holes punched through its windshield. 
 
 It was not immediately clear who would have been behind an attack, but France has recently seen a spate of dramatic assaults from by jihadist groups, including the Islamic State group which straddles Iraq and Syria. 
 
 President Barack Obama condemned what he said "appears to be a horrific terrorist attack." 
 
 "Our thoughts and prayers are with the families and other loved ones of those killed," he said. 
 
 European Council president Donald Tusk said it was a "tragic paradox" that the victims of the attack in Nice were celebrating "liberty, equality and fraternity" — France's motto — on the country's national day. 
 
 France's ambassador to the United States, Gerard Araud, characterized the events as a "terrorist attack." 
 
 Writing online, Nice Matin journalist Damien Allemand who was at the waterside said the fireworks display had finished and the crowd had got up to leave when they heard a noise and cries. 
 
 "A fraction of a second later, an enormous white truck came along at a crazy speed, turning the wheel to mow down the maximum number of people," he said. 
 
 "I saw bodies flying like bowling pins along its route. Heard noises, cries that I will never forget." 
 
 Graphic footage showed a scene of horror up and down the Promenade, with broken bodies splayed out on the asphalt, some of them piled near one another, others bleeding out onto the roadway or twisted into unnatural shapes. 
 
 "Help my mother, please!" one person yells out amid a cacophony of screaming and crying. A pink girl's bicycle is briefly seen overturned by the side of the road. 
 
 The origin and authenticity of the footage could not immediately be verified. 
 
 Kayla Repan, of Boca Raton, Florida, was among the hundreds gathered on the promenade to watch fireworks. 
 
 "The whole city was running. I got extremely frightened and ran away from the promenade," she said. "It was chaos." 
 
 ___ 
 
 Satter reported from Paris. 
 
 ___ 
 
 Associated Press writers Elaine Ganley in Paris and Naomi Koppel in London contributed to this report. ||||| (CNN) Scores of people were killed Thursday night when a large truck plowed through a Bastille Day crowd in Nice, France, in what President Francois Hollande called a terror attack. 
 
 The death toll grew through the night, with Hollande saying 77 people died. Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve said 80 people were killed. 
 
 The driver first shot a gun into the crowd before driving two kilometers along the Promenade des Anglais, the main street in Nice, mowing down people who had gathered to watch fireworks, regional President Christian Estrosi told CNN affiliate BFM-TV. 
 
 Police shot and killed the driver, said Pierre-Henry Brandet, a spokesman for the French Interior Ministry. Police found firearms, explosives and grenades in the truck, Estrosi said. 
 
 "We cannot deny that it was a terror attack," Hollande said in a national television address. He added that the choice of the day -- Bastille Day, when France celebrates its post-French Revolution republic -- was particularly poignant. 
 
 He said that the day is a "symbol of liberty," and that "human rights are denied by fanatics and France is quite clearly their target." 
 
 Hollande recommended that an existing state of emergency, put in place in the wake of the Paris attacks in November 2015 and due to expire later this month, be extended for three further months. 
 
 So far, no group has claimed responsibility. Anti-terror prosecutors have taken over the investigation, according to BFMTV, citing the prosecutor's office. 
 
 Leaders around the world have denounced the brutal incident. 
 
 U.S. President Barack Obama issued a statement saying, "We stand in solidarity and partnership with France, our oldest ally, as they respond to and recover from this attack." 
 
 Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau tweeted: "Canadians are shocked by tonight's attack in Nice. Our sympathy is with the victims, and our solidarity with the French people." Brazilian President Michel Temer tweeted: "It is regrettable that on the day [that] eternalized fraternity as the motto of the French people, an attack destroyed the lives of so many citizens." 
 
 The United Nations condemned what it termed a "barbaric and cowardly" terror attack in Nice. 
 
 As Asia woke up to the horrific news, India, China and South Korea's leaders added their voices to the chorus of condemnation. 
 
 "India shares the pain (and) stands firmly with our French sisters (and) brothers in this hour of immense sadness," Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted. 
 
 Here are the latest developments: 
 
 • Hospitals in the city have launched an urgent appeal for blood donors. 
 
 • The presumptive nominees for the U.S. presidential election have reacted to the attack, again taking strikingly different tones with Trump saying he'd ask for a declaration of war against ISIS while Clinton called for greater intelligence gathering to fight terror groups. 
 
 • Authorities are attempting to determine whether the identity card of a 31-year-old French-Tunisian found in the truck cab matches the body of the driver in the attack, according to a police source cited by AFP. The driver was a Nice resident, according to the Nice Matin newspaper. 
 
 • Hollande said security measures will be increased and an existing state of emergency, which was scheduled to end later this month, will be extended three months. "France is afflicted, but she is strong, and she will always be stronger than the fanatics who want to strike her today," he said. 
 
 • The streets were dense with people when the attack happened. About 100 people were injured, officials said. Witness Tony Molina said he saw bodies of the dead lying in the street, covered in blue tarps and marked so emergency vehicles didn't run over them. 
 
 • Preliminary information from French officials was that there was one individual in the truck, according to a U.S. law enforcement official briefed on the attack. 
 
 CNN Map 
 
 • American Dominique Molina, who was watching from a balcony, said the fireworks had just ended and a crowd on the beach was disbanding. "People were flooding the streets, just walking away from the show, and I heard a lot of loud noises and people were screaming and so to the west, a big moving truck was driving on the promenade, just barreling over people and hitting -- running people over." She estimated the truck moved at 20-25 mph. Molina said her teenage son witnessed the carnage. "It's something you're not supposed to see," she said. "I grabbed my son, I felt like shielding him, protecting him from seeing that. It happened so fast, it was like in slow-motion." 
 
 • Paul Delane, an American, described the chaos. "All of a sudden, just people, thousands of people, started running in one direction. Well, my partner took my hand immediately and we started running with everybody and honestly in my head I had no idea what was going on and the music was so loud and I didn't really see a truck, but just people running and screaming and crying and people carrying their children, and it was just very frightening." 
 
 • The U.S. Consulate in Marseille advised U.S. citizens in Nice to call family and friends to notify them that they are safe . The Consulate said it was working with authorities to determine whether any U.S. citizens were injured. 
 
 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice Baby strollers are seen on the Promenade des Anglais in Nice, France, on Friday, July 15. A 31-year-old native of Tunisia and resident of Nice drove into a crowd during the southern French city's Bastille Day celebrations around 10:45 p.m. on Thursday, July 14, killing at least 84 people and leaving around 202 injured. Hide Caption 1 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice A woman cries, asking for her son, as she walks near the scene of the attack. Hide Caption 2 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice A forensics team inspects the scene of the attack. Hide Caption 3 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice A man looks at the scene of the attack on the Promenade des Anglais. Hide Caption 4 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice Forensics investigators examine a truck at the scene of the attack. Hide Caption 5 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice Hide Caption 6 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice Bodies of victims covered by sheets remained at the scene of the attack early Friday. Hide Caption 7 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice A man sits next to the body of a victim following the attack. Hide Caption 8 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice Authorities confirmed that the driver of the truck was killed by police. Hide Caption 9 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice The truck plowed into a crowd leaving a Bastille Day fireworks display in the French resort city of Nice. One witness, an American who was about 15 feet from the truck, said the driver accelerated and pointed his tractor-trailer into the crowd, mowing people over. Hide Caption 10 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice A man lies near a covered body at the scene of the attack on the Promenade des Anglais in Nice. Hide Caption 11 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice Emergency teams assist wounded people at the scene. Hide Caption 12 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice A photo from the Twitter account of a reporter for CNN affiliate France 2 shows witnesses being interviewed inside the Hotel Negresco after the attack. According to Alban Mikoczy, these people are not injured. Hide Caption 13 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice Wounded people are evacuated from the scene where the truck drove into the crowd during the Bastille Day celebrations. Hide Caption 14 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice Armed French police move people away from the Promenade des Anglais in Nice in the aftermath of Thursday's attack. Hide Caption 15 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice Medical workers attend to an injured woman. Hide Caption 16 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice Police security forces deployed in the center of Nice. Hide Caption 17 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice Tony Molina, a U.S. police officer on vacation in Nice, witnessed the terrible scene from his hotel room. He told CNN he thought he heard between 30 and 40 gunshots. "I saw the truck right below us and it had already driven down the boardwalk for a half a mile." Hide Caption 18 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice BFM-TV, a CNN affiliate in France, reported that police shot at the truck to try to stop it. Hide Caption 19 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice Rescue workers move a victim from the scene. Hide Caption 20 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice Soldiers, police officers and firefighters walk among bodies covered with blue sheets on the seafront Promenade des Anglais. Hide Caption 21 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice Police seal off the area around the scene. A witness said at first it seemed like an accident, but then it became obvious it was a deliberate act. Hide Caption 22 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice "I wasn't sure what to do, in that situation. No one knew what was going on. We just knew we had to run for our lives," said Paul Delane, an American who witnessed the attack. Hide Caption 23 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice French President François Hollande said the country would now extend its state of emergency for three months. Hide Caption 24 of 25 Photos: Bastille Day terror: Harrowing images of truck attack in Nice A doll is seen at the scene of the attack on the Promenade des Anglais. Hide Caption 25 of 25 
 
 • Hollande returned to Paris from Avignon for emergency talks at the Interior Ministry after the incident, according to French national radio. 
 
 • France had put intense security in place for Euro 2016 , the international soccer tournament that just ended. No major attacks occurred during the event. 
 
 • Facebook activated the Safety Check feature for people in and around the area of the attack. 
 
 • An American witness at the scene said the driver of the truck was mowing bodies over, and that he appeared to accelerate as he hit those bodies. The witness said he saw only the driver. He heard gunfire as he ran away, but did not know its source. It seemed like an accident at first, but it became apparent very quickly that it was deliberate, the witness told CNN. 
 
 • Maryam Violet, a witness, said she was walking along the beach and saw "a ton of people on the ground and on the sidewalk. You could see someone with a bike or a wheelchair and someone with a bag full of flowers, innocent and normal people on the beach." 
 
 • Eric Dartell was eating at a restaurant on the street where the incident happened. "You can see wreckage all along the way, a body, bicycles, street lamps and debris everywhere," he said. 
 
 • In the United States, New York Gov. Anthony Cuomo ordered stepped-up security at high-profile locations, including airports, bridges, tunnels and mass transit systems. 
 
 • Nice is on the Mediterranean, about 930 kilometers (580 miles) from Paris. 
 
 • Estrosi said a Rihanna concert has been canceled and that flags will fly at half-mast.