Source: Multi-News


 
 Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke and Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt (second from left) join President Trump during an event in Cincinnati on June 7. Afterward, Pruitt flew by military jet to New York. (Jonathan Ernst/Reuters) 
 
 Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt has taken at least four noncommercial and military flights since mid-February, costing taxpayers more than $58,000 to fly him to various parts of the country, according to records provided to a congressional oversight committee and obtained by The Washington Post. 
 
 “When the administrator travels, he takes commercial flights,” EPA spokeswoman Liz Bowman said Wednesday, explaining that the one charter flight and three government flights were due to particular circumstances. 
 
 The EPA provided documents that outlined how its Office of General Counsel had given legal authorization for each trip. “The administrator, and any Cabinet secretary, is the face of that agency. They’re very outward facing, and we have an obligation to get out throughout the country,” Bowman said. 
 
 The most expensive of the four trips came in early June, when Pruitt traveled from Andrews Air Force Base to Cincinnati to join President Trump as he pitched a plan to revamp U.S. infrastructure. From there, the administrator and several staff members continued on a military jet to John F. Kennedy airport in New York to catch a flight to Italy for an international meeting of environmental ministers. The cost of that flight was $36,068.50. 
 
 The EPA said in travel documents that the White House had approved the trip and that “no viable commercial flights” would have allowed Pruitt to make his plane to Italy, where he had “scheduled meetings with Vatican officials the next day.” His official calendar listed meetings with the Vatican foreign minister, Archbishop Paul Gallagher, and a roundtable discussion with the Italian Court of Appeals. 
 
 On July 27, records show, Pruitt and six staff members arranged a flight on a Department of Interior plane from Tulsa to the tiny outpost of Guymon, Okla., at a cost of $14,434.50. The EPA noted that “time constraints” on Pruitt’s schedule wouldn’t allow him to make the 10-hour round-trip drive. The purpose of the trip was to meet with landowners “whose farms have been affected” by a controversial rule regulating water bodies in the United States, according to the agency. Pruitt has initiated a process to withdraw the regulation, known as the Waters of the United States rule. 
 
 Bowman said that between 50 and 100 farmers and others from Oklahoma, Texas and Kansas attended the session in Guymon. 
 
 Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) listed details on the noncommercial flights in a Sept. 26 letter to the EPA’s inspector general. Whitehouse, whose office would not comment Wednesday, asked for an investigation into the Guymon trip. Pruitt returned to Oklahoma City around 2 p.m., records show. EPA officials informed Whitehouse that he met there with state officials, though Pruitt’s calendar lists only an “editorial board meeting” and “media interview” at 4 p.m. that day. 
 
 Pruitt and three staff members arranged a private air charter on Aug. 4, on a trip from Denver to Durango, Colo. The flight cost $5,719.58. According to the EPA, the commercial flight Pruitt had planned to take “was delayed ultimately for eight hours, which would have caused him to miss a mission critical meeting at Gold King Mine” with Gov. John Hickenlooper (D) and other officials. Hickenlooper offered a seat on his plane, but Bowman said that the governor’s aircraft only had room for Pruitt and that the EPA already had booked the private plane by then. The charter company involved, Mayo Aviation, bills itself as “Colorado’s premier jet charter service.” 
 
 That day, Pruitt criticized how two years earlier EPA had mishandled operations at the Gold King Mine, where the agency inadvertently triggered a spill that polluted rivers in Colorado, New Mexico and Utah. “The previous administration failed those who counted on them to protect the environment,” he said in a statement, vowing to reconsider claims for damages the government previously had denied. 
 
 Finally, on Aug. 9, Pruitt and two staffers traveling in North Dakota flew on a state-owned plane to an event in Grand Forks. The flight cost the EPA $2,144.40. “The Governor of the State of North Dakota offered seats on the state-owned plane to transport the Administrator to this event,” the agency noted in its justification for the trip, which involved touring the University of North Dakota’s Environmental Research Center. “There is no government rate established for this route.” 
 
 The records also indicate that Pruitt, along with a member of his security detail, flies either in business or first class when those seats are available on commercial flights. Multiple EPA travel documents state that Pruitt “is entitled to business class accommodation due to security concerns.” 
 
 Bowman said that while Pruitt flies in such classes when that is an option, he has also flown on multiple occasions in coach. 
 
 Senator Thomas R. Carper (Del.), the top Democrat on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, questioned in a statement why Pruitt would rely on noncommercial aircraft to travel for his work. 
 
 “Most people can’t lease a plane to fly around,” Carper said. “I think as a public servant, you have to try to set some sort of example.” 
 
 Last month, the EPA’s inspector general announced that it would launch a preliminary probe into Pruitt’s travels to Oklahoma. The internal watchdog said the inquiry was triggered by “congressional requests and a hotline complaint, all of which expressed concerns about Administrator Pruitt’s travel — primarily his frequent travel to and from his home state of Oklahoma at taxpayer expense.” 
 
 The probe was triggered in part by the Environmental Integrity Project, a nonprofit group that found through public records requests that Pruitt had spent nearly half of the days in March, April and May in Oklahoma. 
 
 “Administrator Pruitt’s extensive travel to Oklahoma, and expensive travel within Oklahoma, suggests disproportionate attention to his home state,” Whitehouse wrote, adding that the inspector general should add the Guymon visit to his probe and examine why six staffers accompanied Pruitt there. “As part of your review, I further request you examine whether this trip, and the size and composition of his entourage, is consistent with the travel expenditures of prior EPA administrators.” 
 
 Read more: 
 
 EPA spending almost $25,000 to install a secure phone booth for Scott Pruitt 
 
 At EPA, guarding the chief pulls agents from pursuing environmental crimes 
 
 EPA chief Pruitt met with many corporate execs. Then he made decisions in their favor. ||||| Washington (CNN) The Environmental Protection Agency is beefing up security measures surrounding Administrator Scott Pruitt to an unprecedented level, CNN has learned, as members of Congress are asking if the costs are a "potential waste or abuse of taxpayer dollars." 
 
 Pruitt's security detail is in the process of expanding by hiring a dozen more agents, according to a source with knowledge of the situation, as the number of threats against the agency leader increase. The incoming agents will grow the team that works in shifts to provide him around-the-clock protection, something unheard of for Pruitt's predecessors. 
 
 Salaries alone for the full team will cost at least $2 million per year, according to figures compiled by CNN from public documents. The numbers do not include costs such as training, equipment, and travel. 
 
 The spending increase comes as the Trump administration has laid out plans to cut the agency's budget by 30%, including major cuts to the agency's enforcement work and staffing as well as the elimination of some programs. Pruitt told Congress in June that the EPA "can fulfill the mission of our agency with a trimmed budget, with proper leadership and management." 
 
 Pruitt's travel spending has also come under scrutiny following news reports outlining frequent trips to his home state of Oklahoma, as well as several flights on charter and government aircraft. 
 
 EPA administrators, whose public profiles and security arrangements are typically smaller than other members of the Cabinet, haven't had anywhere close to the level of security being assembled for Pruitt. (CNN has withheld specific details about the size of Pruitt's security detail.) 
 
 No previous EPA chief has ever received a 24/7 security detail, the agency's inspector general said. Two prior administrators were guarded primarily when traveling. 
 
 The EPA's inspector general's office, which investigates threats, says Pruitt has received more death threats than any of his predecessors. The office has launched more than 70 investigations into threats against Pruitt and others, the agency said. 
 
 "We have at least four times -- four to five times the number of threats against Mr. Pruitt than we had against Ms. McCarthy," said assistant inspector general Patrick Sullivan , referring to Gina McCarthy, who held the post under President Barack Obama. 
 
 "The EPA is a lightning rod. We get threats from both sides of the spectrum," Sullivan added. "Some people believe the EPA is not doing enough to enforce environmental laws, and they're upset about that. Other people think the EPA is doing too much, vis-à-vis enforcing environmental laws and they're upset about that." 
 
 Asked for comment on this story, EPA spokeswoman Liz Bowman said, "We decline to comment on security measures taken months ago to protect the administrator." 
 
 JUST WATCHED EPA moving agents to provide 24/7 security Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH EPA moving agents to provide 24/7 security 01:29 
 
 New security and a soundproof room for Pruitt's office 
 
 Security enhancements are also being added to Pruitt's third-floor office inside the EPA's Washington headquarters, where sources have previously described restricted access to even the hallway near his office. 
 
 The agency recently made arrangements with a security vendor to have "two access control card readers" installed for his office, according to federal contracting documents reviewed by CNN. That security system, including an additional access card reader for the security office and an alarm in the office to alert agents, costs $15,780, the documents showed. 
 
 Pruitt also purchased a secure soundproof communications booth for his office at a cost of nearly $25,000, purchasing records show, even though EPA already has a similar room elsewhere in the building. 
 
 The company that builds the booth told The Washington Post the EPA was concerned that the box not be vulnerable to hacking or eavesdropping. 
 
 EPA officials have considered using biometric security system, such as a fingerprint scanner, a source with knowledge told CNN. But it was not clear if a biometric system had been installed or continues to be under consideration. 
 
 Access to Pruitt's office appears to be a longstanding concern. Publicly released schedules show that, starting in early April, an aide to Pruitt was responsible for opening his office at 7 a.m. on weekdays for cleaning staff, rather than allowing them to enter on their own. 
 
 In the hallway around Pruitt's office, security employees check government IDs against a list of employees who are approved for access, according to individuals who work at and have visited the building. 
 
 It's unclear if Pruitt and his staff are guarding against outside threats, internal leakers, or both. EPA sources have described Pruitt as distrustful of career staffers at the agency. 
 
 Former EPA Administrator Christine Todd Whitman, who served under President George W. Bush, told CNN that cleaning staff access to her office had not been a concern under her tenure. 
 
 "I guess they entered once I was gone," she said. "There were no restrictions or anyone overseeing them while they were in my office." 
 
 JUST WATCHED EPA changes are 'grave danger,' says former chief Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH EPA changes are 'grave danger,' says former chief 06:22 
 
 Security jobs pay in six-figures 
 
 The positions on Pruitt's detail pay between $103,000 and nearly $162,000, according to the job posting and a source familiar with the positions, who described how the role is called criminal investigator or agent, and said it qualifies for a 25% bonus paid to federal law enforcement officers, who work unusual hours. 
 
 The position of criminal investigator at the EPA that usually involves investigating environmental crimes involving pollution or waste dumping. 
 
 But an online posting for the jobs described the responsibilities as including "assisting with conducting of advances, motorcade logistics, physical security, site security, and conducting or coordinating investigations of individuals or groups who may present a physical danger to the protectee." 
 
 In addition, the cost of the team goes well beyond their salaries. The number of government vehicles used by Pruitt's security detail will also grow, allowing each agent his or her own vehicle. 
 
 Democratic members of Congress have expressed concerns with the costs of his protection. 
 
 Reps. Peter DeFazio and Grace Napolitano asked the EPA inspector general to investigate their concerns that "taxpayer funds are being misused." Their letter states Pruitt's security costs "during his first quarter as EPA administrator is nearly double what the two previous administrators spent on security over that same timeframe." That was before the new agents were hired. 
 
 Pruitt's spending on travel, security and the soundproof room is "symptomatic of a troubling culture that appears to have swept through this administration," the Democrats wrote. 
 
 "This culture, which is reflected in travel and lifestyle choices from the President on down, seems to embolden senior, politically appointed officials of the Trump administration to undertake lavish spending of taxpayer dollars for their sole and personal benefit, and not for the benefit of Americans paying the tab," they added. 
 
 Sen. Tom Udall has asked the EPA for additional information about the detail, including an accounting of costs and whether the increased security measures may be pulling resources away from enforcement programs. 
 
 Previous administrators have not requested nor received the same level of protection. 
 
 McCarthy was driven to and from work by an agent, according to a person familiar with McCarthy's security arrangements while in office. Her security detail included a total of five agents, and typically three agents would accompany her on official travel outside of the DC area. 
 
 McCarthy had an open-door policy for EPA staffers, and she would leave her office door unlocked when leaving for the night. 
 
 Whitman, who served both before and after the September 11 terror attacks, did not use a security detail on a daily basis. Agents accompanied her only when traveling, and she also said she did not lock her office door. Whitman walked by herself to work. ||||| For Immediate Release: October 4, 2017 
 
 Contact:Jen Adler (DeFazio), 202-225-4472 
 
 Washington, D.C. -- Today, House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Water Resources and the Environment Grace Napolitano (D-CA) sent a letter to the Inspector General of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Arthur A. Elkins, Jr. requesting an immediate investigation into the potential waste or abuse of taxpayer dollars by EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt. Specifically, DeFazio and Napolitano point to Pruitt’s hiring of an unprecedented, round-the-clock security detail for $832,735.40 and the construction of a soundproof phone booth in the Administrator’s personal office at a cost of $24,570.00. 
 
 “Individually, we are concerned that each of these expenditures is a waste of taxpayer dollars. Taken together, however, they are symptomatic of a troubling culture that appears to have swept through this administration since President Trump’s inauguration on January 20, 2017. This culture, which is reflected in travel and lifestyle choices from the President on down, seems to embolden senior, politically appointed officials of the Trump administration to undertake lavish spending of taxpayer dollars for their sole and personal benefit, and not for the benefit of the Americans paying the tab,” the Members wrote. 
 
 They cite a July 5, 2017 article by Energy & Environment News, based on documents obtained through the Freedom of Information Act, which found that EPA has spent $617,566.71 for Administrator Pruitt’s security detail and $215,168.69 on travel costs for the detail. In total, the $832,735.40 spent on Administrator Pruitt’s security detail during his first quarter as EPA Administrator is nearly double what the two previous Administrators spent on security over that same timeframe; yet, there is no apparent security threat against the Administrator to justify such a security detail or expenditures. 
 
 In addition, a September 26, 2017 The Washington Post article found that EPA is spending $24,570 to construct a “secure, soundproof communications booth in the office of Administrator Scott Pruitt.” A secure room such as this, typically called a Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility (SCIF), allows someone to communicate privately and without a breach in security. The EPA currently possesses a SCIF within the EPA building where officials with the proper clearances can go to share classified information. Again, there has been no public justification for the construction of a duplicate secure communications facility within EPA, and certainly no justification for one for the EPA Administrator’s sole-use within his personal office. 
 
 The full letter is below. 
 
 October 4, 2017 
 
 The Honorable Arthur A. Elkins, Jr. 
 
 Inspector General 
 
 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
 
 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW 
 
 Washington, DC 20460 
 
 Dear Inspector General Elkins: 
 
 We write to request that you conduct an audit of the recent expenditures made by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for Administrator Pruitt’s security that we believe constitute potential waste or abuse of taxpayer dollars. Similar to Administrator Pruitt’s recent travels that precipitated your ongoing audit of EPA’s travel policies, recent news stories have detailed the expenditure of more than $850,000 for Administrator Pruitt’s security needs. These expenditures include Administrator Pruitt’s hiring of an unprecedented, round-the-clock security detail for $832,735.40 and the construction of a soundproof security booth in the Administrator’s personal office at a cost of $24,570.00. 
 
 Individually, we are concerned that each of these expenditures is a waste of taxpayer dollars. Taken together, however, they are symptomatic of a troubling culture that appears to have swept through this administration since President Trump’s inauguration on January 20, 2017. This culture, which is reflected in travel and lifestyle choices from the President on down, seems to embolden senior, politically appointed officials of the Trump administration to undertake lavish spending of taxpayer dollars for their sole and personal benefit, and not for the benefit of the Americans paying the tab. 
 
 A July 5, 2017 article by Energy & Environment News based on documents obtained through the Freedom of Information Act found that EPA has spent $617,566.71 for Administrator Pruitt’s security detail and $215,168.69 on travel costs for the detail. In total, the $832,735.40 spent on Administrator Pruitt’s security detail during his first quarter as EPA Administrator is nearly double what the two previous Administrators spent on security over that same timeframe; yet, there is no apparent security threat against the Administrator to justify such a security detail or expenditures. According to an EPA budget document, Administrator Pruitt requested an additional 10 full-time equivalent employees to provide himself with round-the-clock security. 
 
 In addition, a September 26, 2017 article in The Washington Post found that EPA is spending $24,570 to construct a “secure, soundproof communications booth in the office of Administrator Scott Pruitt.” A secure room such as this, typically called a Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility (SCIF), allows someone to communicate privately and without a breach in security. What makes this expenditure particularly appalling is that EPA currently possesses a SCIF within the EPA building where officials with the proper clearances can go to share classified information. Again, there has been no public justification for the construction of a duplicate secure communications facility within EPA, and certainly no justification for one for the EPA Administrator’s sole-use within his personal office. 
 
 We have serious concerns that taxpayer funds are being misused in these instances. We are particularly troubled that these expenditures come at a time when President Trump proposes deep budget cuts for EPA, including an almost 25 percent reduction in the budget for EPA’s Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance, the office that enforces the Nation’s environmental laws. 
 
 To that end, we request that you conduct a review of Administrator Pruitt’s security expenditures detailed in this letter to evaluate: 
 
 Are there any limits on the discretionary spending decisions of the Administrator to make purchases for his direct and personal benefit? What internal EPA policies, procedures, and oversight controls are in place to ensure that such funds are not misused or misappropriated? 
 
 Is the EPA Administrator legally justified in diverting agency staff (including personnel and FTEs salary) from EPA’s Office of Enforcement personnel to the Administrator’s private security detail? Were the alleged threats to the Administrator of sufficient urgency and degree to reasonably justify the size and scope of protection provided to the Administrator? Would the decision to transfer personnel from an already understaffed enforcement office have been required in the absence of the Trump administration’s January 2017 hiring freeze on new Federal employees? Has EPA reviewed whether current threats justify continuing the current size and scope of the protection provided to the Administrator? 
 
 What was the justification for the Administrator to purchase a secure, soundproof communications booth to be located in the immediate Office of the Administrator, and does this justification warrant the expenditure of close to $25,000 for such technology when similar facilities are located in the EPA building? What internal protocols are in place to ensure that this new facility is not for the sole use and benefit of the Administrator? 
 
 Did EPA comply with all agency policies, procedures, and oversight controls in procuring round-the-clock security for the Administrator and soliciting a contract for construction of Administrator Pruitt’s secure, soundproof communications booth? 
 
 How can EPA strengthen its policies, procedures, and oversight controls to prevent excessive expenditures by the Office of the Administrator? 
 
 We appreciate your prompt attention to this matter. If you have any questions regarding this request, please contact the staff at the Subcommittee on Water Resources at (202) 225-0060. 
 
 Sincerely, 
 
 PETER DeFAZIO GRACE NAPOLITANO 
 
 Ranking Member Ranking Member 
 
 Subcommittee on Water Resources & 
 
 Environment 
 
 cc: The Honorable Scott Pruitt, Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
 
 [1] U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Inspector General, Audit of EPA’s Adherence to Policies, Procedures and Oversight Controls Pertaining to the Administrator’s Travel (August 28, 2017) (OA-FY17-0382). 
 
 2 Bogardus, Kevin, “Big spike in security spending for Pruitt”, Published July 5, 2017, https://www.eenews.net/stories/1060056958 
 
 3 Brady, Dennis, “EPA spending almost $25,000 to install a secure phone booth for Scott Pruitt”, Published September 26, 2017, https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/energy-environment/wp/2017/09/26/epa-spending-almost-25000-to-install-a-secure-phone-booth-for-scott-pruitt/?utm_term=.f032d3bc85df 
 
 4 See EPA FY 2018 President’s Budget: Major Policy and Final Resource Decisions (https://www.eenews.net/assets/2017/04/04/document_cw_02.pdf). 
 
 5 See supra note 3. 
 
 --30-- ||||| 
 
 Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt will have a soundproof communication booth. (Susan Walsh/AP) 
 
 The Environmental Protection Agency is spending nearly $25,000 to construct a secure, soundproof communications booth in the office of Administrator Scott Pruitt, according to government contracting records. 
 
 The agency signed a $24,570 contract earlier this summer with Acoustical Solutions, a Richmond-based company, for a “privacy booth for the administrator.” The company sells and installs an array of sound-dampening and privacy products, from ceiling baffles to full-scale enclosures like the one purchased by the EPA. The project’s scheduled completion date is Oct. 9, according to the contract. 
 
 Typically, such soundproof booths are used to conduct hearing tests. But the EPA sought a customized version — one that eventually would cost several times more than a typical model — that Pruitt can use to communicate privately. 
 
 “They had a lot of modifications,” said Steve Snider, an acoustic sales consultant with the company, who worked with the agency on its order earlier this summer. “Their main goal was they wanted essentially a secure phone booth that couldn’t be breached from a data point of view or from someone standing outside eavesdropping.” 
 
 [EPA chief Pruitt met with many corporate execs. Then he made decisions in their favor.] 
 
 No previous EPA administrators had such a setup. 
 
 “What you are referring to is a secured communication area in the administrator’s office so secured calls can be received and made,” EPA spokeswoman Liz Bowman said in a statement. “Federal agencies need to have one of these so that secured communications, not subject to hacking from the outside, can be held. It’s called a Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility (SCIF). This is something which a number, if not all, Cabinet offices have and EPA needs to have updated.” 
 
 But according to former agency employees, the EPA has long maintained a SCIF on a separate floor from the administrator’s office, where officials with proper clearances can go to share information classified as secret. The agency did not specify what aspects of that facility were outdated, or whether the unit inside Pruitt’s office would meet the physical and technical specifications a SCIF generally is required to have. 
 
 In recent months, Pruitt and his top deputies have taken other steps aimed at heightening security. Some EPA employees have been asked to surrender their cellphones and other digital devices before meetings in the administrator’s office, in much the same way visitors do when visiting the president in the Oval Office. 
 
 A senior administration official, who asked not to be identified to discuss internal procedures, said that practice was instituted to ensure that employees are focused on the discussion during meetings. However, Bowman said that “if anyone was asked not to bring [phones], it was merely a professional courtesy — it is by no means a policy or directive.” 
 
 [Scott Pruitt says it’s not the time to talk climate change. For him, it never is.] 
 
 Pruitt also has shied away from using email at EPA, often preferring to deliver instructions verbally and hold face-to-face meetings. The shift stems in part from public disclosure by the New York Times in 2014 — following an open-records request of emails — of how Pruitt and other attorneys general had worked closely with the oil and gas industry to oppose Obama administration environmental safeguards. 
 
 Thousands more pages of emails from his time as Oklahoma’s attorney general, released earlier this year after the Center for Media and Democracy sued for them to be made public, detailed an often-chummy relationship between Pruitt’s office and Devon Energy, a major oil and gas exploration and production company based in Oklahoma City. 
 
 In addition, Pruitt has largely avoided the agency’s decades-long practice of publicly posting the administrator’s appointment calendars. Only last week were details on months worth of meetings released after media outlets filed repeated Freedom of Information Act requests for that information; they showed he has met regularly with corporate executives from the automobile, mining and fossil fuel industries — in several instances shortly before making decisions favorable to those interest groups. 
 
 Pruitt, who has become a polarizing and high-profile figure as he seeks to roll back Obama-era policies and shrink the EPA’s footprint, has essentially tripled the personal security detail that served past administrators. The detail now includes about 18 people to cover round-the-clock needs and his frequent travel schedule. Such 24/7 coverage has prompted officials to rotate in special agents from around the country who otherwise would be investigating environmental crimes. 
 
 Acoustical Solutions has done work for various government entities over the years, including building soundproof wall barriers at the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board and installing sound-damping wall and ceiling panels at the State Department, Agriculture Department and other agencies. Earlier this year, the Treasury Department turned to the company to provide a “sound enclosure” at the U.S. Mint in Denver. 
 
 Snider said the company also has installed numerous “audiometric” booths in other government agencies, such as Veterans Affairs, but those almost always are used for hearing tests. The EPA’s request was something different altogether, he said. 
 
 “This is a first,” he said. “They are definitely using this booth in a way that wasn’t necessarily intended. … [But] for the criteria they had, it fit this product.” 
 
 Juliet Eilperin contributed to this report. 
 
 Read more: 
 
 At EPA, guarding the chief pulls agents from pursuing environmental crimes 
 
 EPA under Trump shrinks to near Reagan-era staffing levels 
 
 EPA will reconsider Obama-era safeguards on coal waste 
 
 Thousands of emails detail EPA head’s close ties to fossil fuel industry ||||| The Environmental Protection Agency is in the process of expanding its security fleet for Administrator Scott Pruitt with the hiring of an additional 12 officers, which moves the total number of agents guarding Pruitt to 30, CNN reported Monday. 
 
 The move will cost the department an additional $2 million a year, not including training, equipment or travel, according to CNN. No previous EPA chief has received this level of around-the-clock protection, the department’s inspector general told CNN, but Pruitt has reportedly received more death threats than any of his predecessors. 
 
 The IG office has investigated 70-plus threats against the EPA chief since he came into office. 
 
 “The EPA is a lightning rod. We get threats from both sides of the spectrum,” assistant inspector general Patrick Sullivan told CNN. “Some people believe the EPA is not doing enough to enforce environmental laws, and they’re upset about that. Other people think the EPA is doing too much, vis-à-vis enforcing environmental laws and they’re upset about that.” 
 
 Last month, The Washington Post reported that the EPA spent nearly $25,000 on building Pruitt a sound-proof “privacy booth” for secure phone calls. 
 
 Pruitt already had an unprecedented number of security officers before CNN learned of the new hires. The department reportedly had to pull officers who typically investigate environmental crimes to his security detail. 
 
 The latest security spending increase comes as the agency has announced plans to cut its budget by 30 percent. Like several other members of President Donald Trump’s cabinet, Pruitt’s spending on travel has recently come under scrutiny as well because of his frequent trips back home to Oklahoma and his use of charter planes for official travel.