Source: Multi-News

The Grateful Dead with Trey Anastasio, Jeff Chimenti and Bruce Hornsby 3 Day Pass Tickets (July 3-5) 
 
 Sell for this event Set Price Alert Go with friends Add to wishlist 
 
 Important event information 
 
 Compare tickets from these sellers The Grateful Dead with Trey Anastasio, Jeff Chimenti and Bruce Hornsby 3 Day Pass Tickets (July 3-5) 
 
 Your listings will no longer be selected You cannot select listings on multiple pages. If you continue, 
 
 your selections will be cleared. 
 
 
 
 We don't have seating information for this venue just yet. 
 
 The easiest way to get the gang together! Send invites, get responses, and know everyone's RSVP status with Go Together - the best way to organize a group event on StubHub! Send invites, get responses, and know everyone's RSVP status with Go Together - the best way to organize a group event on StubHub! 
 
 Looking to get the gang together? Send invites, get responses, and know everyone's RSVP status with Go Together - the best way to organize an event on StubHub! 
 
 Click 'Go with friends' to get started! OK 
 
 Add this event to your public wishlist and share it with your friends. ||||| The Grateful Dead's Fare Thee Well show has sold out in minutes, but Deadheads with deep pockets are still in with a chance. Stubhub is offering tickets for the three-day show with a top-price at $116,000 (and change), down to the "cheap-seats" at a touch under $1,350. According to various news outlets, a million dollar ticket was posted on Stubhub, the largest secondary ticket marketplace, but that the offer is no longer online. 
 
 The farewell event, set for Chicago's Soldier Field July 3-5, has officially sold-out at about 210,000. Requests for tickets are believed to be in the millions, Billboard reported, and nearly 500,000 were online waiting to purchase tickets when the "box office" opened at 10 a.m. 
 
 The Grateful Dead with Phish guitarist Trey Anastasio will perform in a 360-degree configuration, allowing the venue to be filled to maximum capacity. When the onsale started, tickets were priced from $59.50 to $199.50 per day, with capacity at 70,000 per day. The shows are produced by Peter Shapiro, 42, in association with AEG-owned Madison House Presents. 
 
 First broken on Billboard.com Jan. 16, Fare thee Well will feature Anastasio joining original members of the Grateful Dead -- the "core four" of Bob Weir; Phil Lesh; Mickey Hart; and Bill Kreutzmann -- for these three 50th-anniversary shows.