Source: Multi-News

WASHINGTON—International support for the U.S.-led military campaign against Islamic State gathered strength with the U.K. vowing to destroy the group after it killed a British aid worker, Arab states agreeing to participate in airstrikes and Australia pledging forces. 
 
 British Prime Minister David Cameron said Sunday his country will do whatever is needed to combat the threat posed by the extremist group operating in Iraq and Syria,... ||||| Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Francois Hollande told the conference Islamic State represented a global threat 
 
 Thirty countries have pledged to help Iraq fight Islamic State (IS) militants "by all means necessary". 
 
 A joint statement by foreign ministers taking part in a major conference in Paris said support would include "appropriate military assistance". 
 
 The talks had been called to agree a strategy to combat the group, which controls large parts of Iraq and Syria. 
 
 The meeting followed a whirlwind tour of the Middle East by US Secretary of State John Kerry. 
 
 Mr Kerry, who attended the summit, has been drumming up support for a plan of action unveiled by President Barack Obama last week. 
 
 The CIA estimates that Islamic State has between 20,000 and 31,000 fighters in Iraq and Syria. 
 
 The murder of British aid worker David Haines by IS militants, shown in a video released by the group on Saturday, has added momentum to the plans, says the BBC's Lucy Williamson in Paris. 
 
 Analysis: Jeremy Bowen, BBC News, Damascus 
 
 Another layer of conflict is being grafted on to a series of parallel and overlapping wars in Syria and Iraq. 
 
 Enemies of the Syrian regime, including Saudi Arabia, will want to calculate how much their actions against Islamic State might strengthen President Bashar al-Assad - who has men tied up fighting IS. 
 
 Iran and Saudi Arabia, regional superpowers, back opposing sides in Syria. They will look very closely to see if American actions indirectly help their rival. 
 
 Some Islamist fighters in Syria who have been trained and armed by Saudi Arabia or Qatar have already gravitated to IS. Opposition to Western involvement might make more follow. 
 
 And the US and its Western allies are becoming direct players in the wars in Syria and Iraq - and in the deepening sectarian conflict between Shia and Sunni Muslims. 
 
 Many argue that the Americans and the British tore open sectarian scars when they invaded Iraq in 2003, and now risk making matters even worse. 
 
 Daunting task ahead for US-led coalition 
 
 How will Obama's anti-IS coalition work? 
 
 'Bigger threat' 
 
 Iraqi President Fuad Masum, who co-hosted the conference with French President Francois Hollande, said the international community must pursue the jihadists "quickly". 
 
 Image copyright AFP Image caption The conference will focus on what the international community can do to help Iraqi troops fight IS militants 
 
 Image copyright Reuters Image caption Kurdish Peshmerga fighters have been battling the Islamists near the key city of Mosul 
 
 Image copyright Reuters Image caption IS militants possess significant military resources and have taken over large parts of Iraq and Syria 
 
 "If this intervention and support to Iraq is late, that means that Islamic State could occupy more territory and the threat it poses will be even bigger," he said. 
 
 The summit declaration said participants were "committed to supporting the new Iraqi government in its fight... by any means necessary, including appropriate military assistance". 
 
 Iraqi Foreign Minister Ibrahim Jafari welcomed the decision, but also said he regretted that Iran was not present at the Paris talks. 
 
 Last week Mr Kerry ruled out co-operation with Iran citing its "engagement in Syria and elsewhere". 
 
 But Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei claimed on Monday that the US had requested Iran's co-operation via the US Ambassador to Iraq. 
 
 "I said no, because they have dirty hands," he said. He added the US was seeking seeking a "pretext to do in Iraq and Syria what it already does in Pakistan - bomb anywhere without authorisation". 
 
 Syria also did not take part in the Paris gathering. 
 
 'Doing their share' 
 
 Meanwhile, France said it had begun surveillance flights over Iraq. Britain revealed in August that its aircraft had been gathering intelligence over Iraq. 
 
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Iraqi FM Ibrahim Al-Jaafari: "Whole international community will stand united" 
 
 Several Arab countries have offered to take part in air strikes on IS fighters in Iraq, US officials say. 
 
 Turkey, however, will only allow humanitarian and logistical operations from the Nato air base on its soil. 
 
 Mr Kerry said he was "extremely encouraged" by promises of military assistance to tackle the militant group. 
 
 The US strategy to weaken the group centres on military support for Iraq but also includes plans to stop foreign fighters from joining the group, cutting its funding streams and trying to counter its ideology. 
 
 The Paris conference was aimed at defining the role each member state will play. 
 
 About 40 countries have so far signed up to a coalition including 10 Arab states - Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates. 
 
 Image copyright AFP Image caption Iraqi and Kurdish forces have been helped in their battle against IS by 160 US air strikes since August 
 
 Image copyright AP Image caption John Kerry visited Iraq last week during a tour of the region to drum up support for action against IS 
 
 Australia announced at the weekend that it was sending 600 troops and up to eight fighter jets to the UAE ahead of possible combat operations in Iraq. 
 
 However, Mr Kerry told US broadcaster CBS that the US was not seeking troops on the ground at the moment. 
 
 Since August, US fighter jets have conducted about 160 air strikes on IS positions in Iraq. 
 
 The group's former name was Isis and it has also been known as Isil (Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant). ||||| Just because the Iranians were not invited to the conference, Mr. Kerry said, “doesn’t mean that we are opposed to the idea of communicating to find out if they will come on board or under what circumstances or whether there is the possibility of a change.” 
 
 Image President François Hollande of France greeted President Fuad Masum of Iraq at the Elysée Palace in Paris on Monday. Credit John Schults/Reuters 
 
 In Tehran, the tone was quite different. Iranian officials gave out flurries of statements to local reporters on Monday, saying that they had rejected multiple invitations by the United States to join the coalition. 
 
 On Monday, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the country’s supreme leader, issued a scathing and, at times, sarcastic statement on the day he left the hospital after prostate surgery. In remarks posted on his personal website, he said he had enjoyed his recent time in the hospital because he had “a hobby,” which was “listening to Americans making statements on combating ISIS — it was really amusing.” Such statements, he added, are “absurd, hollow and biased.” 
 
 The Obama administration has long sought to separate the nuclear talks with Iran from discussions of regional issues, out of concern that Tehran might seek concessions in the nuclear negotiations in return for cooperating on Syria or Iran. 
 
 Mr. Kerry also acknowledged that the administration’s previous effort, led by the deputy secretary of state, William J. Burns, to draw Iran into quiet talks on Iraq and other regional issues had not been productive. “The confidential discussions never got to that sort of substance,” Mr. Kerry told reporters. 
 
 When ISIS burst onto the global stage this summer, some analysts speculated that Tehran and Washington might be able to narrow their deep differences over Iraq, Syria and the Middle East. The same thought occurred after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, when the two antagonists shared a mutual antipathy for the Taliban in Afghanistan. ||||| Specifically, senior Iraqi and Kurdish officials asked the United States as recently as this weekend to take action along the Iraqi-Syrian border to deprive ISIS of the safe havens it enjoys in that area. 
 
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
 
 “The Iraqis have asked for assistance in the border regions, and that’s something we’re looking at,” one State Department official said. 
 
 The description of a calibrated military buildup by coalition forces, combined with a steady effort led by the United States Treasury Department to choke off ISIS’ ability to reap $1 million or more a day from oil sales, emerged as the administration has tried to define what Mr. Obama meant when he said the American goal was to “degrade and ultimately destroy” the Sunni extremist group. 
 
 The president’s chief of staff, Denis McDonough, provided the most current definition of White House thinking on Sunday during an interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” Using an alternative acronym for the extremist group, he said that “success looks like an ISIL that no longer threatens our friends in the region, no longer threatens the United States, an ISIL that can’t accumulate followers or threaten Muslims in Syria, Iraq or otherwise.” 
 
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
 
 That definition falls short of the classic understanding of what it means to destroy an opposing force. But the administration is betting that it has tailored the goals to appeal to the coalition of oftentimes reluctant partners it is trying to assemble, many of whom are deeply suspicious of each other. 
 
 Secretary of State John Kerry, speaking from Paris, declined to say which states had offered to contribute air power, an announcement that White House officials said could await his return to testify in Congress early this week. State Department officials, who asked not to be identified under the agency’s protocol for briefing reporters, said Arab nations could participate in an air campaign against ISIS in other ways without dropping bombs, such as by flying arms to Iraqi or Kurdish forces, conducting reconnaissance flights or providing logistical support and refueling. 
 
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
 
 “I don’t want to leave you with the impression that these Arab members haven’t offered to do airstrikes, because several of them have,” one State Department official said. “The Iraqis would have to be a major participant in that decision,” the official added. “It has to be well structured and organized.” 
 
 The United Arab Emirates, which provided some air power in the 2011 attacks on Libya, seemed at the top of the list, with Qatar hosting an American military headquarters. American officials cautioned that all strikes would have to be approved by the newly assembled government in Iraq, as well as by American military planners. That could prove just one challenge to the offer by Arab nations to participate in airstrikes: While Iraq’s struggling military forces have experience operating with the United States, its Shiite-dominated government has never worked with the Sunni states of the Persian Gulf. 
 
 Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters. 
 
 The United States has identified ISIS targets in Iraq over the past several weeks. But officials said they were waiting, in part, to match the allied commitments with actual contributions: warplanes, support aircraft that can refuel or provide intelligence, more basing agreements to carry out strikes, and the insertion of trainers from other Western countries. 
 
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
 
 Tellingly, there are no plans, as of now, to increase the number of American attack planes in the region. The aircraft carrier Carl Vinson is scheduled to relieve the carrier George H. W. Bush in the Persian Gulf next month; if the Pentagon changed its plans and kept two carriers in the gulf, it could double carrier-based firepower over Iraq and Syria. But for now, there is no plan to do so, officials said. Nor are there any plans to increase American ground-based strike aircraft at facilities around the region, in hopes that Persian Gulf and European allies would make up the difference. 
 
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
 
 Another striking feature of the American plan, officials said, was the deliberate exclusion of coordination with two other players with an interest — and some ability — to take on ISIS: the government of Iran and the forces of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, who Mr. Obama declared three years ago was a brutal dictator who had to leave office. 
 
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
 
 Mr. Kerry has ruled out cooperative efforts with Iranian officials, who a senior administration official said last week are “looking for whatever leverage they can get” in the conflict in hopes of using it to lift pressure on their nuclear program. Iranian-backed militias were on the ground in the Iraqi town of Amerli recently and provided the muscle that Iraqi forces could not in ending a siege by ISIS. 
 
 While the administration insisted it would not work alongside Mr. Assad’s forces, the two sides were clearly working toward the same goal — leading to fears that the United States could essentially become Mr. Assad’s air force, at least temporarily, if it begins attacking ISIS emplacements in Syria. 
 
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
 
 As described by American officials, the battle strategy calls for assembling a force first in Iraq, where the Iraqi army would be guided by 12-man teams of American “advisers” that are expected to begin operating within days, and for new arms and other assistance for the Kurdish forces. Only later would the effort expand to Syria, and the administration is pressing for a congressional vote this week on a $500 million arms package for “moderate” members of the Syrian opposition, now aimed at ISIS rather than the Assad government. 
 
 Officials acknowledged that the so-called moderate rebel forces were fractured and far weaker than ISIS. Even so, administration officials struggled to explain whether the United States was at war with ISIS, as both the White House and the Pentagon spokesman said it was last week, or whether it was engaged in a more traditional counterterrorism action. That was how Mr. Kerry characterized the strategy in an effort to make it easier for Sunni states to explain to their own populations why they would be contributing forces against Sunni extremists. 
 
 “Originally this is not a war,” Mr. Kerry said on CBS’s “Face the Nation,” trying to separate it from the military action in 2003 that he had opposed as a senator. “This is not combat troops on the ground. It’s not hundreds of thousands of people.” He went on to compare it to “war with Al Qaeda and its affiliates,” and said that “in the same context” the United States was “at war with ISIL.”