Source: Multi-News

(CNN) "We do not need tears or sympathy or even prayers," said Aleppo's last remaining doctors in an open letter to US President Barack Obama. "We need action." 
 
 The 15 doctors serving the 300,000 people still living in eastern Aleppo urged the President to create a permanent lifeline to bring in urgently needed medical supplies. 
 
 "We do not need tears" -- Last doctors in Aleppo write letter to Obama pleading for help https://t.co/95zYed2B5N https://t.co/OeUM2XavX8 
 
 "We have seen no effort on behalf of the United States to lift the siege or even use its influence to push the parties to protect civilians," said the letter. 
 
 And while there were rare celebrations in the streets, the battered enclave is still far from peaceful, with tens of thousands of families trapped by fighting, basic infrastructure severely damaged, and access to humanitarian aid limited. 
 
 The eastern part of the city has been held by rebel groups since 2012 with the recent government siege, backed by Russian air power, cutting off many supply routes. 
 
 More than 6,000 people, mainly civilians, were killed or injured in 80 consecutive days of fighting in Aleppo, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. 
 
 What pains us most, as doctors, is choosing who will live and who will die Aleppo doctors 
 
 "What pains us most, as doctors, is choosing who will live and who will die," said the letter, which was first released with the signatures of 29 doctors, and later revised to 15. 
 
 "Young children are sometimes brought into our emergency rooms so badly injured that we have to prioritize those with better chances, or simply don't have the equipment to help them." 
 
 But despite these horrors, the doctors added: "We choose to be here. We took a pledge to help those in need. " 
 
 The White House has received the letter, a senior administration official told CNN on Thursday. 
 
 "The US has repeatedly condemned indiscriminate bombing of medical facilities by the Assad regime in Aleppo and elsewhere in Syria. 
 
 "These attacks are appalling and must cease," the official continued. "We commend the bravery of medical professionals across Syria who are working every day in perilous circumstances with minimal supplies to save lives." 
 
 The official said the US government is working with the United Nations and engaging with Russia to find a diplomatic approach to reducing the violence and allowing humanitarian assistance into the city. 
 
 Dr. Hamza, a Syrian doctor in Aleppo who signed the letter and did not provide a first name, said he was shocked at the response from the White House. 
 
 "Speaking about humanitarian assistance and speaking about negotiation and diplomatic solution is very ironic while the Russian air forces are right above our heads and striking us with every weapon that any man can imagine" said Hamza. "The White House knows exactly what is happening," he said. 
 
 Hamza said the response from the Obama administration felt particularly tone deaf, given what he suspects was a chemical attack in Aleppo late Wednesday. 
 
 Supplies dangerously low 
 
 The doctors say there is an attack on a medical facility every 17 hours, meaning services in the area could be annihilated within one month if no action is taken soon. 
 
 "Unless a permanent lifeline to Aleppo is opened it will be only a matter of time until we are again surrounded by regime troops, hunger takes hold, and hospitals' supplies run completely dry," the letter said. 
 
 "Death has seemed increasingly inescapable." 
 
 Newborns in incubators are evacuated to a hospital basement following reported government bombardment within a few hundred metres of the medical facility, in eastern Aleppo. 
 
 Across the city, more than 2 million people are without access to electricity, said United Nations spokesman Stephen O'Brien at a press briefing. 
 
 The little water that is available through wells and tanks is not nearly enough to sustain the population through the scorching Syrian summer, with children particularly at risk of waterborne disease, he added. 
 
 Doctors pushed to breaking point 
 
 Despite the daily atrocities, the Syrian doctors spoke of their overwhelming duty to help others -- and urged the United States to assume a similar sense of responsibility. 
 
 Some of the doctors had been visiting their families when they heard Aleppo was being besieged and rushed back to help, several on foot because the roads were too dangerous. 
 
 "Because without us even more of our friends and neighbors will die. We have a duty to remain and help," said the letter. ||||| Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Doctors in Aleppo are calling on the US president to come to the aid of civilians 
 
 The last doctors in the rebel-held east of the Syrian city of Aleppo have urged US President Barack Obama to come to the aid of the 250,000 civilians there. 
 
 A letter signed by 15 physicians warns that if attacks on medical facilities continue at their present rate, there could be none left within a month. 
 
 US inaction against crimes by Syria's government and its ally Russia means it bears equal responsibility, it argues. 
 
 Russian forces, meanwhile, were due to halt actions in Aleppo to allow in aid. 
 
 All military activity, air and artillery strikes would be suspended between 10:00 (07:00 GMT) and 13:00 (10:00 GMT) each day from Thursday, a defence ministry official said. 
 
 However, the United Nations said three hours would be insufficient to help the millions in need and appealed for 48-hour pauses. 
 
 Fighting has escalated in recent days, with rebels severing the government's main route to the west of the city. 
 
 The offensive sought to break a siege by pro-government forces, who encircled the east in July with the support of Russian aircraft. 
 
 Image copyright Reuters Image caption Countless civilians have been killed or injured over the past few weeks in Aleppo 
 
 The letter, signed by 15 of the doctors remaining in eastern Aleppo, says that five years into the uprising against President Bashar al-Assad, doctors have "borne witness as countless patients, friends and colleagues suffered violent, tormented deaths". 
 
 "The world has stood by and remarked how 'complicated' Syria is, while doing little to protect us. Recent offers of evacuation from the regime and Russia have sounded like thinly veiled threats to residents - flee now or face what fate?" 
 
 They say that in the past month there have been 42 attacks on medical facilities in Syria, 15 of them on hospitals where they work. 
 
 "Two weeks ago, four newborn babies gasping for air suffocated to death after a blast cut the oxygen supply to their incubators. Gasping for air, their lives ended before they had really begun," they recall. 
 
 The doctors warn President Obama: "Continued US inaction to protect the civilians of Syria means that our plight is being wilfully tolerated by those in the international corridors of power. The burden of responsibility for the crimes of the Syrian government and its Russian ally must therefore be shared by those, including the United States, who allow them to continue." 
 
 Unless a permanent lifeline to rebel-held Aleppo is opened, they add, "it will be only a matter of time until we are again surrounded by regime troops, hunger takes hold and hospitals' supplies run completely dry." 
 
 "We do not need tears or sympathy or even prayers, we need your action. Prove that you are the friend of Syrians." 
 
 Image copyright AFP Image caption The UN said the targeting of hospitals and clinics had continued unabated 
 
 An earlier statement sent to the media had said there were 29 signatories to the letter, and also quoted it as calling on Mr Obama to impose a no-fly zone over Aleppo. 
 
 On Monday, the UN said countless civilians had been killed or injured over the past few weeks in the city, and that the targeting of hospitals and clinics had continued unabated. 
 
 Moreover, attacks on civilian infrastructure had left more than two million people without electricity or access to the public water network for several days, it added. ||||| Fifteen of the last 35 doctors in rebel-held eastern Aleppo have written a letter to Barack Obama with an urgent plea for intervention to stop the bombardment of hospitals in the besieged city by the Russian-backed Syrian air force. 
 
 “We do not need tears or sympathy or even prayers: we desperately need a zone free from bombing over eastern Aleppo to stop the attacks, and international action to ensure Aleppo is never besieged again,” the doctors wrote. 
 
 Their letter came as the Russians said they would suspend aerial action over Aleppo for three hours a day – starting on Thursday from 10am and 1pm (7am to 10am GMT) – and the UK circulated plans at the UN in New York for a ceasefire in which humanitarian relief was implemented by impartial actors, rather than the Syrian and Russian military. 
 
 There has been little respite from the fighting despite the Russian announcement, with battles ongoing in the city and its surroundings. The Syrian government acknowledged that it had launched a counter-offensive “in cooperation with its allies” against the rebels who broke the siege of opposition-controlled eastern Aleppo, and did not indicate there would be a halt for humanitarian reasons. 
 
 “It’s a lie,” said Osama Aboul Ezz, a doctor in the city. “During the time of the ceasefire there were air raids in the city and there are a lot of wounded in Aleppo today, and other doctors have told us that they received wounded during the time the Russians declared the ceasefire.” 
 
 Some factions of the Free Syrian Army who took part in the operation to break the siege had said that they were ready to negotiate with the UN to allow humanitarian convoys in to both western and eastern Aleppo. The western, government-controlled side has been cut off since the weekend after the rebels seized Ramouseh, a key artery into the area, which houses 1.5 million civilians. The regime imposed a siege last month on the eastern side, which has a quarter of a million civilians, and few supplies have made it across amidst the fighting. 
 
 The latest violence came on the heels of yet another suspected chlorine attack, this time on the rebel-held Zubdiya district in the city, which killed three people and left others suffering respiratory injuries, according to local medics. Just last week local doctors in the neighbouring province of Idlib said they had treated more than two dozen patients in a suspected chlorine attack on the town of Saraqeb. 
 
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest A man breathes through an oxygen mask after a hospital and a civil defence group said suspected chlorine was dropped on Aleppo, Syria. Photograph: Abdalrhman Ismail/Reuters 
 
 The UN’s Syria envoy, Staffan de Mistura, said that reports of a gas, believed to be chlorine, being dropped on Aleppo are being investigated. “There is a lot of evidence that it actually did take place,” he told reporters, adding that if confirmed the attack would amount to a war crime. 
 
 He also said the UN was attempting to find a “workable” solution to deliver humanitarian aid with Moscow to Aleppo’s struggling civilians. 
 
 Few observers believe the three-hour windows proposed by Russia on Wednesday are sufficient to deliver useful quantities of supplies. 
 
 Aleppo 'hell' prevents Syria peace talks, say diplomats Read more 
 
 The UN humanitarian chief, Stephen O’Brien, said he was willing to consider the Russian plan, but added that getting sufficient aid into Aleppo would require a 48-hour pause in the fighting and an open single-carriageway road. 
 
 “When we’re offered three hours, then you have to ask: what could be achieved in those three hours?” he said. “Is it to meet the need or will it only just meet a very small part of the need? 
 
 Islam Alloush, a spokesman for Jaysh al-Islam, one of the most powerful rebel groups in Syria and a key faction in the Aleppo offensive, said the proposal was a propaganda ploy but that the group would cooperate with any plan to deliver humanitarian aid to Aleppo. 
 
 “We welcome anything that would preserve the blood of the Syrian people and reduce their suffering,” Alloush said. “But the reality is that this announcement is for media consumption and has not been implemented on the ground, and the regime and its allies continue to wreak destruction on Syrians during the allotted time window and outside it.” 
 
 
 
 The US ambassador to the UN, Samantha Power, has made repeated pleas for 48-hour ceasefires to allow aid into the bombarded city, and for some of the most seriously injured to be removed. A meeting of the UN security council on Tuesday failed to produce an immediate agreement on a ceasefire. 
 
 The joint letter written by the doctors urged the US president “to act now to stop the bombs that continue to fall on the city and ensure they are never held under siege again”. 
 
 It has been claimed that one medical facility is being attacked every 17 hours, and doctors are being forced to make appalling decisions to let children die due to a shortage of blood, medical supplies and more complex scanners. 
 
 Some doctors refused to sign the letter because they had no wish to make any more appeals to the west. 
 
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest Sandbags protect the entrance of a children’s hospital in Aleppo. Photograph: Abdalrhman Ismail / Reuters/Reuters 
 
 There seems little doubt in the minds of western diplomats that the Syrian forces have decided to target the remaining medical facilities in the eastern part of the city in an attempt to terrorise the remaining 250,000-300,000 citizens into submission, starvation or exodus. The six facilities hit in and around Aleppo included a paediatric clinic inside the city where four infants died after their oxygen supply was cut. 
 
 It has not been possible to verify the names of all the doctors listed in the letter, but their account tallies with evidence given by US doctors to the UN after a working visit to Aleppo’s hospitals in the past fortnight. 
 
 Aleppo is a such a prize for both sides that its suffering just goes on Read more 
 
 Aleppo is the second-largest city in Syria and has a symbolic importance to the revolution; its fall would confirm the extent to which the president, Bashar al-Assad, had gained the military upper hand thanks to Russian air support. 
 
 In their letter, the Syrian doctors write: “For five years, we have faced death from above on a daily basis. But we now face death from all around. For five years, we have borne witness as countless patients, friends and colleagues suffered violent, tormented deaths. For five years, the world has stood by and remarked how ‘complicated’ Syria is, while doing little to protect us. Recent offers of evacuation from the regime and Russia have sounded like thinly veiled threats to residents – flee now or face what fate? 
 
 “Last month, there were 42 attacks on medical facilities in Syria, 15 of which were hospitals in which we work. Right now, there is an attack on a medical facility every 17 hours. At this rate, our medical services in Aleppo could be completely destroyed in a month, leaving 300,000 people to die. 
 
 “What pains us most, as doctors, is choosing who will live and who will die. Young children are sometimes brought into our emergency rooms so badly injured that we have to prioritise those with better chances, or simply don’t have the equipment to help them. Two weeks ago, four newborn babies gasping for air suffocated to death after a blast cut the oxygen supply to their incubators. Gasping for air, their lives ended before they had really begun.” 
 
 They warn Obama that “unless a permanent lifeline to Aleppo is opened, it will be only a matter of time until we are again surrounded by regime troops, hunger takes hold and hospitals’ supplies run completely dry. 
 
 “We do not need to tell you that the systematic targeting of hospitals by Syrian regime and Russian warplanes is a war crime. We do not need to tell you that they are committing atrocities in Aleppo,” the letter states. 
 
 The UK has circulated a draft UN resolution on the Aleppo crisis making it clear that any humanitarian solution cannot be run by the Russians or Syrians alone, but must instead be led by impartial humanitarian actors. 
 
 The draft resolution states: “Any proposed humanitarian initiatives for civilians to escape the fighting must be guaranteed by all sides and independently implemented and monitored, and all civilians should be guaranteed voluntary, free movement, including the right to choose their route and destination, if they choose to leave. Humanitarian aid must be delivered to the population wherever they may be, irrespective of whether they chose to leave or remain in Aleppo.” 
 
 
 
 The former Liberal Democrat leader Lord Ashdown urged UK ministers to end their summer silence and speak out against the carnage in Syria. 
 
 He said: “The UK must act quickly and decisively to establish humanitarian access to Aleppo, and if necessary provide RAF plans to aid in air drops to the desperate, besieged citizens.”