Source: Multi-News

Tweet with a location 
 
 You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more ||||| The New York Times has published an anonymous op-ed it says is by a senior official in the Trump administration, who writes that there is a "quiet resistance" to the president within his own administration "working diligently" to block President Trump's "worst inclinations." Mr. Trump slammed the op-ed and The New York Times at the White House Wednesday afternoon, and then later tweeted, "TREASON?" 
 
 In an editor's note, The Times says it knows the author's identity but agreed not to reveal it because the person's job would be jeopardized. 
 
 "President Trump is facing a test to his presidency unlike any faced by a modern American leader," the official wrote. "The dilemma — which he does not fully grasp — is that many of the senior officials in his own administration are working diligently from within to frustrate parts of his agenda and his worst inclinations." 
 
 While the official says that this cadre of administration insiders should not be associated with the "resistance" of the left, they believe that the president's actions are "detrimental to the health of our republic." 
 
 The official says, "The root of the problem is the president's amorality." 
 
 Mr. Trump addressed the op-ed during brief remarks Wednesday afternoon, slamming the "anonymous source within the administration" and calling it "really a disgrace." 
 
 Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders in a statement called the anonymous author "gutless." 
 
 "We are disappointed, but not surprised, that the paper chose to publish this pathetic, reckless, and selfish op-ed," Sanders said. "The individual behind this piece has chosen to deceive, rather than support, the duly elected President of the United States. He is not putting country first, but putting himself and his ego ahead of the will of the American people. This coward should do the right thing and resign." 
 
 In the op-ed, the anonymous official argues that most executive branch staffers are "working to insulate their operations from his whims," as Mr. Trump's "impulsiveness results in half-baked, ill-informed and occasionally reckless decisions that have to be walked back." 
 
 The author quotes another unnamed official as saying that "there is literally no telling whether he might change his mind from one minute to the next." 
 
 The author praises other officials who have privately stood up to Mr. Trump. 
 
 "The erratic behavior would be more concerning if it weren't for unsung heroes in and around the White House. Some of his aides have been cast as villains by the media. But in private, they have gone to great lengths to keep bad decisions contained to the West Wing, though they are clearly not always successful," the official writes. 
 
 The author also criticizes the president's friendliness towards autocrats and dictators such as Russian President Vladimir Putin. 
 
 The official says there some "early whispers within the cabinet" of the 25th Amendment — which provides a mechanism for replacing a president who is incapacitated — but "no one wanted to precipitate a constitutional crisis." 
 
 "The bigger concern is not what Mr. Trump has done to the presidency but rather what we as a nation have allowed him to do to us. We have sunk low with him and allowed our discourse to be stripped of civility," the official writes. 
 
 "There is a quiet resistance within the administration of people choosing to put country first," the official ends his op-ed. "But the real difference will be made by everyday citizens rising above politics, reaching across the aisle and resolving to shed the labels in favor of a single one: Americans." 
 
 At a meeting with sheriffs from around the country at the White House Wednesday afternoon, Mr. Trump denounced the op-ed and took a jab at The New York Times. 
 
 "When you tell me about some anonymous source within the administration, probably who is failing and probably here for all the wrong reasons — and the New York Times is failing — if I weren't here, I believe the New York Times probably wouldn't even exist," he said. 
 
 Pres. Trump: "When you tell me about some anonymous source within the administration, probably who is failing and probably here for all the wrong reasons -- and the New York Times is failing -- if I weren't here, I believe the New York Times probably wouldn't even exist." pic.twitter.com/cnv0oltPjq — CBS Evening News (@CBSEveningNews) September 5, 2018 
 
 Mr. Trump tweeted later about the op-ed-, writing just "TREASON?" in one tweet. In another, he showed a video of his comments at the White House and wrote "The Failing New York Times!" In a later tweet, he asked if the "the so-called 'Senior Administration Official' really exist, or is it just the Failing New York Times with another phony source? If the GUTLESS anonymous person does indeed exist, the Times must, for National Security purposes, turn him/her over to government at once!" ||||| By and large, the Donald Trump era has wrought a series of unprecedented actions, uncharted waters, first times for everything. Arguably one of the most stunning such firsts, at least in the media landscape, arrived on Wednesday afternoon, when The New York Times published an op-ed submitted by an anonymous “senior official” titled “I Am Part of the Resistance Inside the Trump Administration.” This official not only confirmed the West Wing chaos so often described in White House reporting, but also informed readers that concerned White House staffers are working on a stealth plan to protect the republic from Trump’s erratic behavior as commander in chief, in what read like a mixture of a cry for help, a patriotic warning, a professional exculpation, and a sign that the inmates know they are banging around in a tortured asylum. 
 
 The article was strewn with eye-popping, stomach-churning confessions such as: “The dilemma . . . is that many of the senior officials in his own administration are working diligently from within to frustrate parts of his agenda and his worst inclinations,” and: “from the White House to executive branch departments and agencies, senior officials will privately admit their daily disbelief at the commander in chief’s comments and actions.” Finally, the author invoked a fear of the 25th Amendment, which my colleague Gabriel Sherman reported on last year. “Given the instability many witnessed,” the author noted, “there were early whispers within the cabinet of invoking the 25th Amendment, which would start a complex process for removing the president. But no one wanted to precipitate a constitutional crisis.” 
 
 Inside the Times’s newsroom and Washington bureau, the op-ed caused jaws to drop. The news and opinion departments function independent of one another, and editorial-page editor James Bennet confirmed to me that he did not inform executive editor Dean Baquet about the column in advance, in order to respect the firewall. “People are totally stunned,” one senior Times journalist told me. “It’s a parlor game. Everybody’s trying to figure out who it is, including the Washington bureau. It feels like a crazy moment.” 
 
 Indeed, Times reporters who cover the White House now find themselves in the rather unorthodox and surely awkward position of trying to discern the identity of a source whose anonymity is being protected by another department of their own organization. “I’m obviously very concerned about preserving the anonymity of the writer,” Bennet told me, “but I understand reporters are doing their job.” 
 
 In a brief phone interview Wednesday evening, Bennet wouldn’t say much about the genesis of the op-ed. He offered that it had already been in the works before similar claims about a White House in crisis began leaking out of Bob Woodward’s forthcoming Trump tell-all, Fear. Jim Dao, the editor who oversees op-eds for the Times, told CNN that “several days ago” the official “contacted me through an intermediary.” Bennet told me there was a rigorous vetting process, and that his team took seriously the precautions to protect the identity of the official about whom America’s political and media establishment is now engaged in a feverish guessing game. 
 
 Bennet elaborated that the Times has granted anonymity to op-ed writers before—say, a person inside Syria whose life would be endangered by a byline, or an undocumented immigrant fearful of deportation. But one cannot recall an instance when the Times, or any major newspaper, offered an unnamed administration official a platform upon which to torch the very administration for which he or she works. It’s a decision that speaks to the extraordinary times we live in, and one that was bound to be met with controversy, adding to an already substantial series of controversies the opinion section has weathered under Bennet’s stewardship. “The author of the anonymous op-ed is hoping to vindicate the reputation of like-minded senior Trump staffers,” wrote David Frum, the former George W. Bush aide and anti-Trump conservative, in a piece for The Atlantic. “But what the author has just done is throw the government of the United States into even more dangerous turmoil. He or she has enflamed the paranoia of the president and empowered the president’s willfulness.” 
 
 Trump, in a televised appearance on Wednesday, renounced the piece and its author. “We have somebody in what I call the ‘failing New York Times‘ talking about he’s part of the resistance within the Trump administration. This is what we have to deal with,” he said. “So when you tell me about some anonymous source within the administration, probably who’s failing, and probably here for all the wrong reasons—no. And The New York Times is failing. . . . So if the ‘failing New York Times’ has an anonymous editorial—can you believe it, anonymous, meaning gutless, a gutless editorial.” (Editorials, intended to reflect the position of a newspaper’s editorial board, appear without a byline. Wednesday’s bombshell was in fact an anonymous opinion piece.) 
 
 “There will be a lot of criticism, and I understand it,” Bennet told me. “The question for us was, does making this unusual grant, is it merited by the significance of the piece? We feel that it was.” He added, “Our job isn’t to publish op-eds to further one political argument or another. Our job is to publish op-eds that further the public’s understanding of what the hell is going on, and I think this piece makes a significant contribution.” ||||| President condemns ‘gutless’ source of piece revealing opposition within administration and claims paper must hand writer over 
 
 Donald Trump has called for the New York Times to reveal the identity of a senior administration official who the paper says is the author of a column revealing they are part of a “resistance” against the president’s “worst inclinations”. 
 
 The president vented his fury at the essay, which the newspaper said it had taken the rare step of running anonymously, saying the writer’s “identity is known to us” and their “job would be jeopardized by its disclosure”. 
 
 Its publication has prompted a frenzied search for the author. 
 
 Trump called for the source to be revealed in tweets on Wednesday evening, with one asking starkly: “TREASON?” 
 
 Trump aide's anonymous op-ed reveals 'resistance' inside administration Read more 
 
 Then in a follow up tweet, he insisted: “If the GUTLESS anonymous person does indeed exist, the Times must, for National Security purposes, turn him/her over to government at once.” Later he tweeted: 
 
 Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) I’m draining the Swamp, and the Swamp is trying to fight back. Don’t worry, we will win! 
 
 Earlier a defiant Trump, appearing at an unrelated event at the White House, said of the New York Times: “They don't like Donald Trump and I don't like them.” 
 
 He derided the article as “anonymous, meaning gutless” and described the author as “some anonymous source within the administration probably who is failing and probably here for all the wrong reasons”. 
 
 The essay immediately triggered a guessing game as to the author's identity on social media, in newsrooms and inside the White House, where officials were blindsided by its publication. The article’s language was being scrutinized for clues. 
 
 The writer, claiming to be part of the “resistance” to Trump – but not from the left – said: “Many Trump appointees have vowed to do what we can to preserve our democratic institutions while thwarting Mr Trump's more misguided impulses until he is out of office.” 
 
 The column went on: “It may be cold comfort in this chaotic era, but Americans should know that there are adults in the room … We fully recognize what is happening. And we are trying to do what's right even when Donald Trump won't.” 
 
 Play Video 1:29 'Gutless': Trump responds to anonymous New York Times op-ed – video 
 
 Brian Stelter, senior media correspondent at CNN, reported that the author of the piece had used an intermediary several days ago to make contact with the New York Times op-ed editor Jim Dao. 
 
 Stelter said Dao had told him that there were only a "very small number of people within the Times who know this person's identity” and that a number of special precautions had been made to keep it protected. Dao would not elaborate. 
 
 The op-ed pages of the newspaper are managed separately from its news department. 
 
 Dao, Stelter reported, declined to comment on how senior the official was or reveal further nuances of the person’s role. It was unclear if the author worked in the White House or had direct contact with Trump. 
 
 The White House press secretary, Sarah Sanders, accused the author of choosing to “deceive” the president by remaining in the administration. 
 
 “He is not putting country first, but putting himself and his ego ahead of the will of the American people,” she said. “The coward should do the right thing and resign.” 
 
 Sanders also called on the New York Times to "issue an apology" for publishing the piece, calling it a "pathetic, reckless and selfish op-ed". 
 
 White House officials did not immediately respond to a request to elaborate on Trump's call for the writer to be turned over to the government or the unsupported national security ground of his demand. 
 
 The furore over the op-ed comes after Trump had also hit out at a highly critical book on his presidency by the respected investigative journalist Bob Woodward. Trump called the book a “con of the public”. 
 
 Woodward, one of the journalists who helped uncover the Watergate scandal, portrays the Trump White House as chaotic and dysfunctional in his new book, Fear. 
 
 In one section, Woodward says that Trump ordered the defence secretary, James Mattis, to kill the Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad after a chemical attack on civilians, but Mattis dismissed the order. 
 
 Speaking on Wednesday to Anderson Cooper on CNN, the former secretary of state, John Kerry, asked about the Woodward book and the New York Times op-ed, said there was a "genuine constitutional crisis" around the presidency. 
 
 The Associated Press contributed to this report ||||| I’m draining the Swamp, and the Swamp is trying to fight back. Don’t worry, we will win! ||||| We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? 
 
 Yes