Source: Multi-News

Former lottery computer programmer Eddie Tipton, center, speaks during his sentencing hearing, Tuesday, Aug. 22, 2017, at the Polk County Courthouse in Des Moines, Iowa. Judge Brad McCall sentenced Tipton... (Associated Press) 
 
 DES MOINES, Iowa (AP) — A former lottery computer programmer who admitted to rigging computers to enable him to pick winning numbers and cheat four states out of $2.2 million in several lottery games over six years was sentenced to up to 25 years in prison in Iowa on Tuesday. 
 
 "I regret my actions and I'm sorry for the people I hurt," said Eddie Tipton, 54, the former information technology manager for the Multi-State Lottery Association, a central Iowa organization that provides number-picking computers for lotteries in 33 states the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. 
 
 Tipton's voice quivered when asked by Judge Brad McCall to speak during the sentencing hearing. After McCall issued the sentence, Tipton was handcuffed and taken away by sheriff's deputies. 
 
 Under Iowa law, Tipton is likely to serve far less than 25 years — probably between three and five years, said Iowa Assistant Attorney General Rob Sand, who prosecuted the case. The Iowa Board of Parole will ultimately determine how long he's behind bars. 
 
 "I think when you're an insider who abuses your position of trust and privilege you should expect to see the inside of a jail cell," Sand said. 
 
 Tipton's attorney asked McCall to give Tipton probation in Iowa, arguing his client was unfairly being treated far more harshly than other people involved in the scheme. 
 
 As part of his plea deal, Tipton also admitted to committing theft by fraud and a computer crime in Wisconsin, where he'll be sentenced Sept. 18. The agreement allows him to serve his Wisconsin sentence — likely to be three to four years — at the same time he serves the Iowa prison sentence. 
 
 Tipton also agreed to repay the $2.2 million to the four states from which he rigged games and jackpots were paid, but he told McCall it's unclear how he will get the money. He said he hopes to study ministry and get a job in that field after prison. 
 
 "Hopefully you're going to get rid of that greed and gain a little common sense during your prison stay," McCall said. 
 
 Tipton helped write the computer code behind several U.S. lottery games, including some of its biggest including Powerball, Mega Millions and Hot Lotto. He worked for the lottery association from 2003 until 2015 and was its computer information security director for his last two years there. 
 
 Tipton admitted in June to installing code that prompted the computers to produce predictable numbers only on certain days. Tipton said he gave the numbers to his brother, Tommy Tipton, and longtime friend Robert Rhodes and others to play and often split the winnings with them. 
 
 Tommy Tipton is serving a 75-day jail sentence in Texas after pleading guilty to a theft charge. Rhodes is expected to get probation when he's sentenced on Aug. 25 for a computer crime charge. 
 
 The games Eddie Tipton fixed included Colorado Lotto in November 2005, Megabucks in Wisconsin in December 2007, 2by2 in Kansas and Hot Lotto in Iowa in December 2010, and Hot Lotto in Oklahoma in November 2011. Iowa Lottery officials became suspicious and never paid the jackpot when Tipton and Rhodes tried to cash a $14 million Iowa Hot Lotto ticket bought in 2010. 
 
 "Eddie Tipton had the keys to the kingdom and those are the things we changed immediately to make sure any equipment he touched was removed and we continue to look ahead and make sure we have those checks and balances as we proceed," Iowa Lottery CEO Terry Rich said. 
 
 ___ 
 
 Follow David Pitt on Twitter at https://twitter.com/davepitt 
 
 ___ 
 
 Sign up for the AP's weekly newsletter showcasing our best reporting from the Midwest and Texas: http://apne.ws/2u1RMfv ||||| CLOSE Eddie Tipton apologizes for his role in an Iowa Lottery scam before being sentenced to 25 years in prison. Michael Zamora/The Register 
 
 Buy Photo Eddie Tipton at his sentencing Aug. 22, 2017 in Polk County on charges of lottery fraud. (Photo: Michael Zamora/The Register)Buy Photo 
 
 Eddie Tipton, the Iowa security chief who masterminded a multi-state lottery fraud that shook the industry, will spend up to 25 years in prison for rigging “random” drawing jackpots. 
 
 "I certainly regret" what happened, Tipton said in Polk County District Court before his sentencing, where some of his former coworkers sat in the courtroom. "It’s difficult even saying that with all the people I know behind me that I hurt, and I regret it. I’m sorry." 
 
 It's uncertain how many years Tipton will actually spend in prison. He could be paroled within three or four years, his attorneys noted. 
 
 District Court Judge Brad McCall told Tipton before handing down the sentence that he has no doubt about the former Iowa Lottery employee's intelligence. He advised Tipton to use his prison time to reflect on his actions. 
 
 “It is indeed unfortunate that you did not use that intelligence to prosper by legal means," District Court Judge Brad McCall said. "Instead you chose an illegal path." 
 
 Tipton, 54, was a longtime computer programmer in the Iowa offices of the Multi-State Lottery Association who installed software that allowed him to manipulate winning numbers in some of the nation’s most popular lottery drawings. 
 
 His scam began to unravel following unsuccessful attempts to anonymously collect a $16.5 million Hot Lotto ticket that was purchased at a Des Moines convenience store in 2010. 
 
 In addition to Iowa, Tipton admitted to fixing games in Colorado, Wisconsin, Kansas and Oklahoma with the help of his brother and former Texas judge Tommy Tipton and Texas businessman Robert Rhodes. 
 
 Register investigation: Iowa Lottery takes a pass on fixes to stop cheaters. Blame the money, critics say 
 
 After years of investigation, Eddie Tipton was arrested in 2015 and ultimately pleaded guilty in June to three felony charges related to the crimes. 
 
 As part of a plea deal, the Tipton brothers are to pay back $3 million in restitution. 
 
 After his first illegal win in 2005, Tipton launched construction on a 4,800-square-foot home outside of Des Moines that contained a movie theater and gym, overlooked a pond and sat on 22 acres, court documents show. 
 
 The scam spread to at least six more games across five states, netting more than $2 million, investigators alleged. 
 
 Tipton admitted his role as part of a plea deal to resolve charges in all the states. 
 
 CLOSE Since 1985, the Iowa Lottery has generated more than $1.7 billion in profits. Here's a look at some key statistics and how it works in Iowa. Wochit 
 
 His attorney, Dean Stowers, argued his Iowa sentence should be suspended because Eddie Tipton still stands to be sentenced in Wisconsin under an agreement in which he will spend three or four years in prison. 
 
 In the end, the Iowa sentence was inconsequential since the terms will be served concurrently, Stowers said. 
 
 Tommy Tipton is serving a 75-day jail sentence in Texas after he pleaded guilty in June to conspiracy to commit theft by deception. Rhodes, of Sugar Land, Texas, pleaded guilty to a computer crime and will be sentenced Friday. 
 
 Stowers said he doesn't believe sufficient safeguards have been put into place to prevent similar types of lottery fraud. 
 
 He blamed lottery investigators for going years without identifying the fraud committed by his client. 
 
 "… the lack of interest in actually examining the program being used to pick these numbers is kind of alarming, really," Stowers said. 
 
 Police and prosecution will always be criticized, Assistant Iowa Attorney General Rob Sand, the prosecutor on the case said following Tuesday's sentencing. 
 
 "The criticism is fine," Sand said. "…We kept working. We didn't get discouraged when we hit roadblocks. Right now we're at the end of the day and we got our man." 
 
 A Register investigation of the Iowa Lottery earlier this year found that some of the system's most frequent winners are retail employees who sell tickets, with one winning prizes of $600 or more at least 53 times since 2012. 
 
 The Register also documented multiple cases where people convicted of lottery fraud were allowed to keep their winnings, sometimes amounting to tens of thousands of dollars. 
 
 While the Iowa Lottery has taken steps to make fixes recommended by the Iowa Ombudsman, some key issues remain. 
 
 That includes a recommended ban against retail lottery employees playing the lottery in stores where they work and prohibiting those convicted of fraud from winning in the future. 
 
 As the law stands now, Eddie Tipton could claim future Iowa Lottery prizes, even though the winnings would be highly scrutinized by investigators, lottery officials acknowledged Tuesday. 
 
 Iowa Lottery CEO Terry Rich credits his staff for calling the alert to the Hot Lotto scam when they refused to pay the $16.5 million ticket won in 2010. 
 
 Players recognize the Iowa Lottery's commitment to player integrity, he said. 
 
 "Our sales have continued to grow and be record breaking across the board, and part of that I think is the transparency," Rich said. 
 
 Read or Share this story: http://dmreg.co/2xpH1Eh ||||| A former lottery worker was sentenced to 25 years in prison on Tuesday for rigging the system in several states so he could collect the jackpots. 
 
 Eddie Tipton, former security director of the Multistate Lottery Association, received the maximum sentence from an Iowa judge, who mentioned Tipton's "greed" in his sentencing. 
 
 "I certainly regret my actions," Tipton told the court. "It's difficult even saying that with all the people that I know behind me that I hurt." 
 
 Tipton pleaded guilty in June to a charge of ongoing criminal conduct for a scheme involving seven lottery tickets in five states, according to court documents. He admitted to rigging computer codes to produce winning numbers -- netting Tipton and his accomplices millions of dollars. 
 
 Tipton has agreed to pay about $2.2 million in restitution, including $1.1 million to the Colorado lottery, $644,000 to the Oklahoma lottery, $391,000 to the Wisconsin lottery and $30,000 to the Kansas lottery. 
 
 Related: Powerball jackpot hits $700 million 
 
 When Judge Brad McCall asked him on Tuesday how he intended to repay the money, Tipton said, "Initially, I really don't know." 
 
 Tipton's lawyer said he expects his client will serve three to four years before being released. 
 
 "Mr. Tipton is pleased get this chapter behind him and to move on with his life," Dean Stowers said in an email to CNNMoney. He had asked the judge for a suspended sentence. 
 
 Tipton was formerly a programmer with the Multistate Lottery Association, the agency that administers state lotteries. He designed and maintained software "for computerized random number generators used to select winning lottery numbers in many states across the country," according to the office of Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller. 
 
 Tipton, who lives in Texas, is accused of buying lottery tickets in various states, including Iowa, and selecting numbers that he knew would win, since he designed the program that generated the winning numbers. Tipton then gave these tickets to third parties who agreed to cash them and split the money with him. 
 
 Related: Biggest lottery jackpots in U.S. history 
 
 One of these accomplices was his brother, Tommy Tipton, authorities said. The investigation against the Tipton brothers began in 2010, with a suspicious claim for a $14.3 million Hot Lotto jackpot in Iowa that lottery officials refused to pay. The Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation traced Tipton's scheme to other states as well. 
 
 Eddie Tipton made a deal with prosecutors in June, in which he pleaded guilty to the Iowa charge of ongoing criminal conduct. Prosecutors dropped a charge of money laundering. He will be allowed to serve the Iowa sentence concurrently with a sentence of up to five-and-a-half years in Wisconsin, where he pleaded guilty to theft by fraud and computer crime. 
 
 Iowa Assistant Attorney General Robert Sand said in a news conference after the sentencing that investigators were certain they had uncovered all Tipton's rigged jackpots. "The fact that he's going to spend years of his life in prison is appropriate," he said. 
 
 Tipton's brother Tommy Tipton, a former judge in Texas, is currently serving a 75-day sentence in Texas for a misdemeanor theft charge and deferred judgment on a felony charge of conspiracy to commit theft. 
 
 The Tiptons' friend Robert Rhodes, who also lives in Texas, was the one who attempted to redeem the $14.3 million jackpot. He has pleaded guilty to fraud and will be sentenced on Friday.