Source: Multi-News

See more of National Geographic Adventure on Facebook ||||| ... 
 
 are raising money for the Live Water Foundation and your contribution will make an impact, whether you donate $5 or $500. The Live Water team are the leading advocators of water sports activity that aims to better the well-being of their communities. Every little bit helps! To make it even better ~ this year on Giving Tuesday (tomorrow Nov 27) Facebook and PayPal will match a total of $7 Million in donations. Thank you for your support in advance! Paddle. Inspire. Empower. ||||| An autopsy will be performed Thursday on an Army veteran and double amputee who died Wednesday after he was found in the Chesapeake Bay with a group of paddle boarders. 
 
 Natural Resources Police said Cody Iorns, 25, of Washington D.C. was pronounced dead at Anne Arundel Medical Center after attempts to resuscitate him failed. 
 
 Spokeswoman Candy Thomson said Iorns was part of a group of four paddle boarders who were on the water off Tolly Point around 6:30 p.m. One of the people in the group saw Iorns face down in the water behind them and they attempted to rescue him and bring him to shore, Thomson said. 
 
 At a press conference Thursday afternoon, Maryland Natural Resources Police Capt. Brian Rathgeb said Iorns suffered undetermined medical distress while on the water. An autopsy is being conducted Thursday in Baltimore to determine the cause of death. 
 
 Rathgeb said Iorns was wearing an inflatable life jacket, but the device did not inflate. 
 
 He had three people with him — they started performing CPR, according to Thomson. One went ashore seeking help, Rathgeb said. An Anne Arundel County Fire Department boat picked Iorns up from the water. 
 
 He was taken to Anne Arundel Medical Center where he was pronounced dead, he said. 
 
 Iorns was a double amputee and Army veteran who was well-known in the paddle boarding community. He paddle boarded with the help of prosthetic limbs. 
 
 Capital SUP, a paddle boarding group and business in Annapolis, said in a statement on Facebook that Iorns “went out for a downwind paddle with fellow Capital SUP paddlers and unexpectedly drowned.” 
 
 “We are still processing how it happened,” the group wrote. “We are at a loss for words. He was our brother. He was an inspiration to everyone on and off the water.” 
 
 Iorns was profiled by National Geographic last year, which described him as a competitive paddle boarder who’d lost his arms in a motorcycle accident. 
 
 In the piece, the publication said he was a former Army medic who trained and competed with Capital SUP’s “Water Warriors” program for veterans. 
 
 In an interview, Iorns described the challenges of paddle boarding while being an amputee, saying “whenever I paddle board, it’s a team sport because someone is getting my board, someone’s helping me with my arms, so that’s my team.” 
 
 “80 percent of my goal is accomplished by making it to the race,” he said. 
 
 It was one of three separate incidents that happened out on the Chesapeake Bay during choppy conditions Wednesday afternoon, and brings the number of boating-related deaths this year to 10. By this time last year there had been four boating-related deaths, Rathgeb said. The state saw nine, boating-related deaths in 2017. 
 
 “We’re on pace for one of the deadliest years boating-wise in Maryland,” he said. 
 
 Emergency crews are continuing their search today for a missing boater who fell overboard off of a 40-foot cabin cruiser between Kent Narrows and Herrington Harbor South. 
 
 Thomson said Kevin Yates Sr., 41, of Queen Anne’s County, was helping another boater who’d recently purchased a boat in Kent Narrows to move it over to Herrington Harbor South around 2:45 p.m. Wednesday. 
 
 Yates was helping the other man to move the boat to Herrington Harbor South while wind gusts were up to 25 knots as he was a more experienced boater, Thomson said. 
 
 At one point, Yates needed to use the bathroom and handed the helm over to the other boater, Thomson said. 
 
 It is believed that Yates fell off the vessel sometime during this period, as Thomson said the other boater stayed at the helm for about an hour, uncomfortable leaving it unmanned. 
 
 “We have a very very large search area,” Rathgeb said at the press conference. “We’re basically searching between Poplar Island and Herring Bay, so Eastern Shore to the Western Shore.” 
 
 He was last seen wearing blue shorts and a dark shirt with no life jacket. They are continuing to search with aviation units and boats Thursday, Rathgeb said. 
 
 In another incident, a 6-year-old boy who stepped off a crabbing pier at Sandy Point State Park is expected to survive. The water level was almost flush with the pier when the child stepped off, Rathgeb said. 
 
 Thomson said that he was with his family having a picnic at the park and went to the crabbing pier where he was swept into the water during particularly rough conditions. 
 
 The boy’s father jumped into the water after him and brought him back to shore, Thomson said. 
 
 The boy was taken to Johns Hopkins with non-life threatening injuries and is okay now, Rathgeb said. 
 
 Of the 10 boating-related deaths in Maryland so far this year, four have occurred in Anne Arundel County. 
 
 A common theme for almost all the fatalities is that the person wasn’t wearing a life jacket, Rathgeb said. Inflatable life jackets also work, and are worn by Natural Resources Police officers. The inflatable jackets are less bulky, making people more likely to wear them, he said. In Iorns’ case the device wasn’t working properly, he said. 
 
 “They’re great as long as you maintain them and keep up with them,” he said. 
 
 CAPTION Surveillance video provided by Anne Arundel County Police shows a Ford F350 pickup truck backing into a 7-Eleven on Defense Highway in Crofton in an attempt to steal an ATM from the store. Surveillance video provided by Anne Arundel County Police shows a Ford F350 pickup truck backing into a 7-Eleven on Defense Highway in Crofton in an attempt to steal an ATM from the store. CAPTION Surveillance video provided by Anne Arundel County Police shows a Ford F350 pickup truck backing into a 7-Eleven on Defense Highway in Crofton in an attempt to steal an ATM from the store. Surveillance video provided by Anne Arundel County Police shows a Ford F350 pickup truck backing into a 7-Eleven on Defense Highway in Crofton in an attempt to steal an ATM from the store. CAPTION D.C. Police release video showing "person of interest" in threats to CAIR the Muslim civil rights and advocacy organization. CAIR said it is taking extra security precautions after seeing the video. D.C. Police release video showing "person of interest" in threats to CAIR the Muslim civil rights and advocacy organization. CAIR said it is taking extra security precautions after seeing the video. CAPTION Anne Arundel County officials discuss a $550,000 grant awarded to law enforcement by Gov. Larry Hogan to combat gangs. Anne Arundel County officials discuss a $550,000 grant awarded to law enforcement by Gov. Larry Hogan to combat gangs. CAPTION A locomotive at an Odenton maintenance yard caught fire Wednesday morning, damaging the train engine but nothing else. A locomotive at an Odenton maintenance yard caught fire Wednesday morning, damaging the train engine but nothing else. CAPTION Anne Arundel police plans to expand their storage space, in part, because of the number of weapons they anticipate confiscating as a result of the new law, said Chief Altomare. Anne Arundel police plans to expand their storage space, in part, because of the number of weapons they anticipate confiscating as a result of the new law, said Chief Altomare. 
 
 twitter.com/PhilDavis_CG ||||| Army Veteran, Who Had Lost His Arms, Drowns While Paddleboarding At Age 25 
 
 Enlarge this image toggle caption Marvin D. Lynchard /Department of Defense Marvin D. Lynchard /Department of Defense 
 
 Cody Iorns was not one to lie down in defeat. 
 
 The Army medic veteran lost his arms following a motorcycle accident in 2015, but fitted with prosthetic limbs, he turned to the water, specifically standup paddleboarding. 
 
 The dogged athlete was featured in several news reports, showcasing his rise from adversity, and he became well known in the local water sports community. 
 
 Iorns died Wednesday evening after venturing out into the Chesapeake Bay from Annapolis, MD, according to Maryland Natural Resources Police Public Information Officer Candy Thomson. 
 
 He was 25. 
 
 Maryland's Office of the Chief Medical Examiner told NPR the cause was accidental drowning. 
 
 Iorns set off around 6 p.m. Wednesday with three other paddlers, Thomson said. The plan was to launch from Thomas Point and head toward Spa Creek about five miles away, returning to land about an hour-and-a-half later. 
 
 As a precaution, somebody in the group sent Maryland Natural Resources Police a message with their route, Thomson said. 
 
 But the conditions were rocky. 
 
 "We had a huge high tide because of the full moon," Thomson said, "we had four to five foot waves." 
 
 Winds were gusting up to 25 miles per hour, and somehow Iorns wound up behind the group and in the water. 
 
 "They all of a sudden looked back and noticed that Cody had fallen from his paddle board and was face down in the water," Thomson said. 
 
 His life jacket did not inflate, Thomson said, and the other paddlers were quick to act. 
 
 "They pulled him back on his board and did CPR while pulling him back toward shore," Thomson said. 
 
 Iorns was brought to the Anne Arundel Medical Center where he was pronounced dead. 
 
 Despite the rough conditions, the paddlers "did everything within reason," Thomson said. 
 
 "These were experienced paddlers," Thomson said, especially Iorns. "He was in good shape, he was comfortable around the water, he was well known in our paddleboard community." 
 
 Capital SUP Annapolis, a paddleboard company, posted a message to Facebook saying Iorns "unexpectedly drowned" after going out with his fellow Capital SUP paddlers. 
 
 "We are still processing how it happened," the post said. "Please pray for Cody's family. We are at a loss for words. He was our brother. He was an inspiration to everyone on and off the water." 
 
 Last year, Iorns spoke to WJLA TV News about the motorcycle accident that changed his life. 
 
 "My left arm was just gone," Iorns said. His right arm was severely fractured and following an infection he lost it too. 
 
 Iorns, a former Army specialist who served as a combat medic, told WJLA, the easy thing to do would have been to lie in bed. 
 
 "You've got to step out of your comfort zone," he said. 
 
 "I know that I feel so much better when I'm out, trying to give something my 100%," Iorns told National Geographic Adventure, which showcased him in a paddleboarding race last year. 
 
 National Geographic said Iorns was the only adaptive paddler in the 9-mile long Wrightsville, N.C., Surf to Sound race. 
 
 He finished 28th. 
 
 "80 percent of my goal is accomplished by making it to the race," he said. "So doing the race, that's kind of like the icing on the cake." 
 
 "Standup paddleboarding has been a lot of failing, a lot of working, a lot of finding out what doesn't work the hard way," he said. 
 
 Still, he said it was the thing he wanted to do most. 
 
 An investigation into what happened on the water Wednesday evening is ongoing, Thomson said. 
 
 "They were playing by the rules and something happened and that hits you hard because it is so unfair," Thomson said. ||||| Please enable cookies on your web browser in order to continue. 
 
 The new European data protection law requires us to inform you of the following before you use our website: 
 
 We use cookies and other technologies to customize your experience, perform analytics and deliver personalized advertising on our sites, apps and newsletters and across the Internet based on your interests. By clicking “I agree” below, you consent to the use by us and our third-party partners of cookies and data gathered from your use of our platforms. See our Privacy Policy and Third Party Partners to learn more about the use of data and your rights. You also agree to our Terms of Service.