Source: Multi-News

Border Guards help Syrians cross the border into Jordan in this May 4 photo (Photo by Hassan Tamimi) 
 
 AMMAN — Based on recent developments and upon further discussions with international agencies, Jordan will allow the delivery of aid to the berm through cranes, to be collected by the community leaders of the displaced Syrians near the border for distribution. 
 
 In remarks to The Jordan Times on Sunday, Minister of State for Media Affairs and Government Spokesperson Mohammad Momani said the distribution process will be monitored "in different ways". 
 
 Asked if the new measures entail any change to Jordan’s policy regarding the berm, the no-man's land between the Jordanian and Syrian borders where the displaced Syrians are gathered, Momani said Jordan will maintain its sealed border policy, and this delivery of aid will not affect that. 
 
 The injured and humanitarian cases will be allowed entry based on the assessment of agencies on the ground. 
 
 According to the UN, more than 85,000 Syrians are stranded at Rakban settlement in the no-man’s-land between Jordan and Syria. 
 
 Momani explained aid would be transported by cranes directly from the northeastern border to the other side. 
 
 Community leaders in Rakban will receive the aid once lowered and distribute it to the refugees there. 
 
 Members of the Tribal Council of Palmyra and Badia, a Syrian rebel group in charge of running the Rakban camp’s daily affairs, told The Jordan Times that the preliminary agreement entails the resumption of aid delivery as of next week. 
 
 Jordan declared the northern and northeastern border areas a closed military zone in June in the aftermath of a terrorist attack that targeted a military post serving refugees near the border, killing seven troops and injuring 13 others. 
 
 Since then, Jordan has agreed with international relief agencies to allow a one-off aid delivery to the area in August, while global stakeholders were expected to seek alternative solutions to continue the mission. ||||| FILE - In this Wednesday, June 22, 2016 file photo, Syrians walk through the Ruqban refugee camp in Jordan's northeast border with Syria. An official says Jordan will permit regular aid drops by crane... (Associated Press) 
 
 FILE - In this Wednesday, June 22, 2016 file photo, Syrians walk through the Ruqban refugee camp in Jordan's northeast border with Syria. An official says Jordan will permit regular aid drops by crane to Syrian refugees stranded on its sealed border. The comments by government spokesman Mohammed Momani... (Associated Press) 
 
 AMMAN, Jordan (AP) — Jordan is willing to allow regular aid drops by crane from its territory to tens of thousands of Syrians stranded on its sealed desert border, the government spokesman said on Monday. 
 
 The comments by Mohammed Momani signaled an apparent shift in Jordan's position in talks with international aid agencies over access to the displaced. 
 
 However, two aid officials said nothing has been finalized. They spoke on condition of anonymity because talks are ongoing. 
 
 The pro-Western kingdom sealed its border with Syria in June, after a deadly cross-border attack claimed by Islamic State extremists killed seven members the Jordanian security forces. This has left more than 75,000 Syrians stuck between a war zone and a sealed border, without regular access to food, water and medicine. 
 
 The displaced live in two makeshift tent camps in an area where the frontier is marked by two parallel low earthen walls, or berms. Conditions have become increasingly dire, with aid officials reporting the spread of disease, including whooping cough and hepatitis. 
 
 Before the border closure, aid was sent from Jordanian soil. In August, Jordan permitted an aid drop by crane, in what was described at the time as a one-off shipment. 
 
 U.N. agencies have since proposed setting up an aid distribution center between five and seven kilometers west of the largest encampment, known as Rukban, within the strip marked by the two berms, an aid official said. This would presumably have drawn the Syrians away from a Jordanian military base that is close to Rukban. 
 
 However, Momani told The Associated Press on Monday that this is no longer being considered. 
 
 "The new mechanism will be delivering aid on the berm through cranes, and the aid will be given to community leaders of groups of Syrians so they can distribute it accordingly," he said, adding it would be up to the aid agencies to decide on the pace of shipments. 
 
 Momani said the border will remain sealed, citing an ongoing security threat to Jordan. The camps at the berm have been infiltrated by criminals, smugglers and extremists, he said. 
 
 "You can describe part of it as a Daesh enclave," he said, referring to the extremist Islamic State group by its Arabic acronym. 
 
 The two aid officials said nothing has been agreed on. One of the officials, who has direct access to the talks, said he was not aware of an emerging agreement on crane drops. He said another meeting was set for Tuesday. 
 
 The suffering at the berm has caused some friction between Jordan and the international community. 
 
 Aid agencies have been pressing for a resumption of aid from the Jordanian side. 
 
 Jordan has said the international community needs to take responsibility for those stranded at the berm, and that the kingdom has already done more than its share in taking in Syrian refugees. In the past, Jordan has argued that this aid needs to come from Syrian territory, not Jordan. 
 
 Momani said Jordan has taken the "moral high ground" by offering to help. 
 
 Close to 5 million Syrians fled civil war in their country since 2011, including close to 660,000 who settled in Jordan. ||||| More than 70,000 Syrian refugees who are stranded in dire conditions on the Jordanian border could be about to receive long-awaited aid after an announcement by Jordan’s government of plans to use a crane to deliver supplies. 
 
 Epidemic warning over 'ghost' refugees stuck at Jordan-Syria border Read more 
 
 Jordan first shut its border to refugees fleeing the Syrian civil war in mid-2014. About 75,000 Syrians have since been trapped in no-man’s land, unable to either enter Jordan or return to Syria. 
 
 Aid groups managed to deliver food and supplies by lorry until June this year when Jordan sealed the border to all traffic after a car bomb in the area. In the four months since, refugees at the “berm” – as the border fortifications are known – have been virtually without humanitarian aid. 
 
 Without formal shelter, refugees had dug holes in the ground to escape a Russian bombing raid. At the height of summer, when temperatures reached 50C (122F), Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) said those at the berm were experiencing “some of the most extreme conditions on Earth”. 
 
 But there was a glimmer of hope on Monday when the Jordanian government said aid could be delivered without opening the border – by using a crane to regularly lift supplies over the berm, or sandy ridge. 
 
 Aid groups in Jordan told the Guardian nothing had been confirmed. But Mohammed Momani, a government spokesman, said in interviews with the Jordan Times and Associated Press (AP) that a plan had been set in motion. 
 
 “The new mechanism will be delivering aid on the berm through cranes, and the aid will be given to community leaders of groups of Syrians so they can distribute it accordingly,” he told AP. Aid was previously delivered using a crane once in August. 
 
 If the plan goes ahead, the aid could alleviate a dire humanitarian situation on the border, where Amnesty International says disease is rife owing to the absence of medical care since the start of summer. 
 
 Several people have died of hepatitis, and satellite footage obtained by Amnesty last month showed refugees had begun to create makeshift burial grounds in which to inter the corpses. “Many people have died,” one refugee at the border told the charity. “The humanitarian situation is very bad, the situation of children in particular is very bad. We have drinking water but hardly any food or milk … [it] is awful.” 
 
 Amnesty cautiously welcomed Monday’s announcement, but warned that cranes were no substitute for allowing aid workers direct access to the 75,000 refugees. 
 
 Khairunissa Dhala, a refugee researcher for Amnesty, said: “News that humanitarian assistance will be resumed to tens of thousands of refugees stranded at the berm comes as a welcome relief. However, Amnesty International is extremely concerned about reports that aid will be delivered by crane rather than through a response that would allow for organisations to have unfettered humanitarian access to refugees at the berm who continue to live in inhumane conditions. 
 
 
 
 “Furthermore, this short-term solution must not distract the Jordanian government and the international community from finding a sustainable longer–term solution for the stranded refugees. Jordan, must allow refugees at the berm into the country while carrying out necessary checks in line with international standards, to allay security concerns. World leaders must also relieve the pressure on host countries like Jordan by assuming their fair share of responsibility and significantly increasing resettlement places offered.” 
 
 The situation highlights the worsening prospects for displaced Syrians hoping to reach safety outside their home country. In the early years of the Syrian war, refugees could easily flee to neighbouring countries, with about 2.5 million escaping to Turkey, 1.2 million to Lebanon and more than 650,000 to Jordan. Syrian refugees now make up about a fifth of Lebanon’s population and a 10th of Jordan’s. 
 
 
 
 But as the war dragged on, Middle Eastern countries gradually shut their borders, particularly once it became clear that western countries would not share the responsibility by resettling significant numbers in Europe and North America. 
 
 Syrian refugees must now choose between living under regime rule; fleeing to refugee camps in rebel territory, which have at times been overrun by jihadis or bombed by the government; or risk being shot on the Turkish border as they smuggle themselves across. ||||| 
 
 Shelters at the Jordan-Syria border by the Rukban crossing, in September 2016. (CNES 2016 Distribution AIRBUS DS) 
 
 Over the past five years, Jordan has become one of the biggest recipients of refugees fleeing its war-torn neighbor, Syria. Almost 700,000 Syrians have been registered as refugees in the country, which has a population of just 6.5 million. Those are just the ones who have registered; Jordanian officials say the real number is far over 1 million. 
 
 But Jordan's hospitality may have hit a limit. 
 
 In the past year, as the trickle of new refugees entering the country slowed to a crawl, thousands of Syrian refugees have become trapped in an isolated no man's land between Syria and Jordan known as "the berm." Current estimates suggest more than 75,000 people are stuck in this area, but Jordanian authorities refused to allow access to the site for journalists and only limited access for aid groups. 
 
 A report from Amnesty International published Wednesday evening shows just how dire the situation on the berm has become. Using information from satellite images, video footage and a number of first-person accounts, Amnesty was able to show not only a dramatic growth in the size of the settlement at the border, but also what may be evidence of death and disease at the site. 
 
 The satellite imagery appears to show a dramatic growth in shelters at Rukban, one of two border crossings between Syria and Jordan, over the past year. While there were just 363 shelters at the site one year ago by Amnesty's count, by July 2016 there were 6,563. The most recent imagery released by Amnesty shows 8,295 shelters in September 2016. 
 
 
 
 Graphic showing the approximate number of shelters at the Syria-Jordan border in September 2016. (CNES 2016, Distribution AIRBUS DS. Data via UNOSAT) 
 
 A growing population that is increasingly isolated from food and medical treatment is creating serious health problems, the report noted. 
 
 Sources told Amnesty researchers that poor hygiene and sanitation problems at Rukban had led to an outbreak of hepatitis that had killed at least 10 refugees, many of whom were children, since the beginning of June. Aid workers also say that there have been nine childbirth-related deaths since June 21. 
 
 Video footage released by Amnesty appears to show graves and burial mounds. The organization also pointed to two separate sites in satellite images that look to be makeshift grave sites at the Rukban crossing. Amnesty said that it was not possible to get a fuller picture of a death toll at the site because of continuing issues with access. 
 
 
 
 Possible grave site in displacement camp at Syria-Jordan border. (CNES 2016, Distribution AIRBUS DS. Image from video obtained via the Tribal Council of Palmyra) 
 
 
 
 Image of what appears to be a grave site in displacement camp at Syria-Jordan border. (CNES 2016, Distribution AIRBUS DS. Image from video obtained via the Tribal Council of Palmyra) 
 
 “The situation at the berm offers a grim snapshot of the consequences of the world’s abject failure to share responsibility for the global refugee crisis. The . . . effect of this failure has seen many of Syria’s neighbors close their borders to refugees,” said Tirana Hassan, crisis response director at Amnesty. 
 
 While it has long been of concern, the situation on the berm appears to have deteriorated noticeably in recent months. 
 
 Previously, aid agencies such as the International Committee of the Red Cross in Jordan and the U.N. refugee agency were allowed access to the site to distribute food and provide basic medical services. Refugees were often held up at the border because of stringent security checks by the Jordanian government, but people did get through. 
 
 In March, The Washington Post interviewed a number of refugees at the Azraq refugee camp in Jordan, who gave varying accounts of their time there. Some said they had stayed for as many as five months. Often, the families allowed through include women who are in the late stages of pregnancy. 
 
 The situation changed when a suicide bombing by the Islamic State killed seven Jordanian border guards near the Rukban crossing on June 21. Jordan had long warned that the Syrian refugees at the border had been infiltrated by extremists; after the bombing, it closed the border for good. 
 
 Aid groups lost direct access to the berm. In early August, United Nations aid agencies were forced to use a crane to lower 650 metric tons of food and hygiene kits to the stranded refugees. It was unclear if Jordan would allow more deliveries in the future. "If this continues like it is now, we will soon see starvation, dehydration and we will be confronted with preventable deaths at the berm," Benoit De Gryse, operations manager for Doctors Without Borders, told reporters. 
 
 The Jordanian government has acknowledged the situation at the berm a number of times over the previous year, but justified the tight control at the border because of security concerns about the Islamic State. However, there are also considerable tensions within Jordan over the Syrian refugees who have already arrived in the country. Some Jordanians say these refugees have pushed wages down and prices up. Others point to the considerable amount the government must spend on refugees. 
 
 In an interview with the BBC in February, King Abdullah II of Jordan suggested that his country was reaching its limit with refugees, and other nations should not criticize unless they were willing to do more themselves. “If you want to take the moral high ground on this issue, we’ll get them all to an air base and we’re more than happy to relocate them to your country,” he said. 
 
 Read more: 
 
 Refugee camp is partially empty while thousands wait at Jordanian border