Source: Multi-News

It's not often that a commercial can be super relevant and timely, but somehow, the team behind advertising for KFC in South Africa was ready to turn a great World Cup moment into a bit of marketing genius. 
 
 About a week ago in a match between Brazil and Serbia, Neymar provided one of the funniest and most creative flops in recent memory as he rolled on the ground multiple times after contact knocked him off his feet while he was going out of bounds. 
 
 KFC decided to put its own spin on Neymar's move and what came of it was one of the most brilliant topical commercials there has been in a while. 
 
 Check out Neymar's initial tumble and the commercial below. 
 
 #NeymarRolling is all the rage these days. Absolutely unreal advertisement from KFC South Africa 😂🤣pic.twitter.com/5MqGJkDB6L — Jack Grimse (@JackGrimse) July 5, 2018 
 
 Neymar and Brazil face Belgium in the World Cup quartfinals Friday at 2 p.m. Hopefully he will provide us with another classic viral moment, either through a flop or through his play. ||||| Germany—the 2014 World Cup champion—is out. Superstar rivals Lionel Messi of Argentina and Cristiano Ronaldo of Portugal have been eliminated, too, as has Egypt’s forward Mohamed Salah. 
 
 Arguably, the only widely-known soccer player remaining in the 2018 World Cup is Brazil’s Neymar da Silva Santos Júnior. And he’s famous for more than just his deft skill, but also for his hairstyles and dramatic antics on the field. 
 
 His rolling on the field during a game against Serbia, after being knocked by an opponent, has become both a meme and a hashtag. 
 
 KFC of South Africa is trying to capitalize on this World Cup notoriety in a recent commercial that appears to mock Neymar’s rolling. The ad shows a soccer play hitting the ground and then dramatically rolling off the field and through town before getting up to order KFC. 
 
 #NeymarRolling is all the rage these days. Absolutely unreal advertisement from KFC South Africa 😂🤣pic.twitter.com/5MqGJkDB6L — Jack Grimse (@JackGrimse) July 5, 2018 
 
 Diving, the term for soccer players trying to trick referees into thinking that they’re injured, is a controversial tactic aimed at getting referees to call fouls, which can lead to penalty kicks, or yellow or red cards. Neymar’s acting has led to scorn, especially after Brazil’s victories against Serbia and then Mexico. (The Atlantic argues, however, that “Neymar’s trickery deserves absolution, because it is the very source of his greatness.”) 
 
 Neymar and Brazil are favored by some to win the World Cup; they’ll face off against Belgium on Friday. 
 
 Whether Neymar or the South African KFC commercial will ultimately succeed is unclear. But they’ve certainly captured our attention. ||||| The KFC ad could be making fun of a lot of soccer players but Neymar has undoubtedly drawn the most conversation for his antics on the pitch. 
 
 JOHANNESBURG – Who will win the 2018 Soccer World Cup? Is it England, Belgium or is it Brazil? 
 
 The World Cup has been on everyone’s lips lately but it’s Neymar's elaborate diving, rolling and flopping that has been dominating conversations. 
 
 Brazil’s superstar has spent plenty of time on the ground writhing in agony, some warranted and some maybe not so much. 
 
 At the start of the tournament in In June, KFC South Africa released a funny advertisement depicting a soccer player being tackled then dramatically falling to the ground and holding on to his knee. 
 
 The player then starts throwing up his hands, flopping and rolling ... until he gets to a KFC! 
 
 At the same time, Twitter has come up with the hashtag #NeymarChallenge where different gifs and memes have been shared. ||||| Why make a meal of it for a free kick when you can make a meal of it with a Streetwise 2 for R29.90!