Source: Multi-News

The pizza parlor owners who received death threats and were subjected to an online hate campaign will reopen for business tomorrow with the backing of $842,000 from well wishers and a defiant message that they stand by their opposition to gay weddings. They were going to open today but were advised to hold off for security reasons. 
 
 In an exclusive first interview inside Memories Pizza restaurant since it closed down last week, owner Kevin O’Connor and daughter Crystal emerged from hiding and told Daily Mail Online they had been heartened by the support of 29,000 people who donated and many more who wrote to them. 
 
 They revealed they are set to share their new fortune with disabled children, a women’s help group, fire fighters, police trusts, Christian churches and Washington florist Barronelle Stutzman, 70, who was fined after declaring she would not serve a gay wedding. 
 
 The tiny pizza joint in the unremarkable town of Walkerton, which has a population of just over 2000, became the focal point of a raging national debate over Indiana’s Religious Freedom Restoration Act, which was passed last month. 
 
 Scroll down for video 
 
 Back in business: Kevin O’Connor and daughter Crystal emerged from hiding and told Daily Mail Online they had been heartened by the support of 29,000 people who donated and many more who wrote to them 
 
 Controversy: The tiny pizza joint in the unremarkable town of Walkerton, which has a population of just over 2000, became the focal point of a raging national debate over Indiana’s Religious Freedom Restoration Act, which was passed last month 
 
 Critics said it would allow individuals and businesses to use religion as a defense against any accusation of discrimination from gay people. 
 
 The bill was severely tested over the last week after Crystal, 22, a devout Christian, told a local radio station that the restaurant she runs with her father would never cater a wedding of two people of the same sex. 
 
 Mr. O’Connor and his daughter were still adamant today, despite the furor that has engulfed them, that they would refuse to serve gay marriages with their pizzas. 
 
 He added: ‘ If any child of mine came out as gay and entered into a gay marriage, I would still love them, but Daddy wouldn’t be going to the wedding.’ 
 
 The O’Connors, who serve around 100 pizzas a week to locals, admitted they had never actually been commissioned to provide their 16 inch $12.99 cheese pizzas or pulled pork $5.75 sandwiches to a same sex wedding. 
 
 Crystal said:’ I was asked a hypothetical question and that was the answer I gave. But I didn’t hope to gain anything by saying what I said. 
 
 ‘I wasn’t trying to score points. It is something I believe in from my heart and my faith about gay weddings. But I don’t regret what I said. 
 
 ‘I have been scared, but God is giving me strength. I think it is nothing compared to what Christ had to suffer.’ 
 
 Speaking to ABC57 a week ago, Crystal said: 'If a gay couple came in and wanted us to provide pizzas for their wedding, we would have to say no.’ 
 
 The remark was quickly picked up by opponents of the new law and sparked an intense and angry debate, with threats being made against the O’Conners, forcing them to close down and go into hiding until today. 
 
 Crystal said: ‘I don’t like attention, period. Before all this I was the “Pizza Girl” and I didn’t like that and now I got even more attention. 
 
 People were looking at me and all that brought my spirits down. But the support we got also lifted me and made me stronger and humbled. But it has been difficult. Crystal O'Connor 
 
 ‘I don’t know how to take it.' 
 
 She said the abuse in telephone calls and in online remarks had frightened her of being attacked when walking along the sidewalk in tiny Walkerton which is primarily set around a small stretch of a busy highway. 
 
 ‘I didn’t want to leave my apartment. I was scared. 
 
 ‘People were looking at me and all that brought my spirits down. But the support we got also lifted me and made me stronger and humbled. But it has been difficult.’ 
 
 Her father, who has owned the business for around nine years, said: ‘I am overwhelmed and not just because of the money, but the positive feedback that we have met with. 
 
 ‘There are just a lot of good people out there. It seems like all we hear about is the bad ones and when something like this happens, it seems like the bad ones are the first to come out and get after you. 
 
 ‘I don’t hate these people. They are just angry. I am not really sure what they are so angry about. So many things today are topsy turvey. What used to be wrong is now right and what used to be right is now wrong. I don’t hold anything against them. 
 
 ‘When this country was founded it was a Christian nation and those were the rights given to us by the founders and before that by God. People just don’t want you to have those rights any more. 
 
 ‘I just don’t understand it all. But it is kind of like fighting the fire. The fire burns big until thefire trucks get there. The fire rages and the more supportive people are like the fire trucks as they come in and start displacing the flames, putting itdown and building your spirits back up.’ 
 
 Postman Kevin Kollar delivers the mail to Memories Pizza and More in Walkerton yesterday. Kollar said the restaurant went from receiving about four letters a day to 40 or more 
 
 He recalled how the fury began over a few words Crystal chose to reveal her deep rooted opposition to same sex marriages. 
 
 ‘This all happened last Tuesday. Crystal was by herself and I was by myself in a different spot.’ 
 
 He said his daughter telephoned him to discuss a reporter’s request for an interview on the ramifications of the new law and whether she should agree to talk. 
 
 Mr O’Conner said he considered the situation after he recalled a verse from the Bible ‘ when Christ said ‘If you deny me before a man, I will deny you before the father’. 
 
 He said he felt it would be denying his and his daughters Christian beliefs if they did not admit to their opposition against gay marriage. 
 
 After the interview had been broadcast and the negative remarks began, he said he saw his daughter’s despair. 
 
 ‘She was feeling more and more helpless about it and I was telling her ‘Its going to be ok...its not going to be that big. 
 
 ‘And then it just blew up and the ugliness arrived. But it was not a throwaway remark that she made. We do not believe in gay marriages, so we will not support them.’ 
 
 A local teacher sent a message out on Twitter, which was quickly deleted, calling for Memories Pizza to be firebombed. The message is now the subject of a police investigation and charges are being considered against her. The sports school coach has been suspended. 
 
 Creating memories: The O’Connors, who serve around 100 pizzas a week to locals, admitted they had never actually been commissioned to provide their 16 inch $12.99 cheese pizzas or pulled pork $5.75 sandwiches to a same sex wedding 
 
 Mr O’Connor said he had read some of the remarks against him and his daughter and he found them ‘vile and disgraceful’. 
 
 ‘I have seen some of the stuff and it disgusts me and I don’t know how one human being can think about doing something like that to another. I had never really thought about being hated before. 
 
 ‘But on the day after which was a Wednesday, stuff started rolling in and it really started lifting ourspirits. 
 
 ‘There were a whole lot of people out there who began voicing our support and just building our confidence. 
 
 ‘It is very encouraging to know there are other people out there who think the way you do and feel thesame way you feel. 
 
 ‘They support our right to be able to have that belief and I compare this case like that of conscientiousobjectors. 
 
 ‘There were people who kind of beat them up because they wouldn’t go to war for their country, but they understood. And some of them did fight. 
 
 They shouldn’t suffer in the way they have and my only problem with them is that I don’t like their pizzas very much. A friend ordered one once and I didn’t really care for it. Whitney Doody 
 
 ‘But some were allowed the right not to have to fight for their country because that was there religious belief… that is how I see it. ‘ 
 
 He denied being homophobic and wanting to raise opposition to gay weddings. 
 
 Pointing to the front of the restaurant, which is decorated with pictures of Jesus and Christian verse and pictures of Elvis, he said: ‘I don’t care who comes through that door. 
 
 ‘They are people. I don’t care if they are gay. I don’t care if they walk in on their hands. I don’t care if their heads are attached to their knee. 
 
 ‘They are more than welcome to come in and eat. ‘That is not what is about. We believe that it is not right for a man to marry a man and for a woman to marry a woman. People could end up marrying trees…come on!’ 
 
 Whitney Doody, 26, a lesbian who lives in Walkerton, said she had no ill feelings against the owners of Memories Pizza. 
 
 “They are entitled to feel how they feel. They have their religious rights just the same as I have my gay rights. 
 
 ‘They shouldn’t suffer in the way they have and my only problem with them is that I don’t like their pizzas very much. A friend ordered one once and I didn’t really care for it.’ 
 
 Bar owner Larry Stoner has installed a sign outside his business Club 23 which says ‘ We don’t discriminate.’ 
 
 He said: ‘I don’t have any problems with gays in Walkerton. They are as welcome in my bar the same as anybody else. 
 
 ‘But I do have a problem with people who have no money because my business cannot operate with those kind of people coming in.’ 
 
 Mr O’Connor, whose cell phone rings to the tune of ‘When You Wish Upon A star’ from Disney's Pinocchio, said he was re-opening his restaurant after receiving police assurances about his safety. 
 
 But his decision to lift the shutters for the first time in a week was also for commercial reasons as business had been slack and the till hasn’t rung in a week. 
 
 Whitney Doody, a Walkerton, Ind. resident and openly gay woman, said she has not been discriminated against in the small community. despite the recent controversy involving a restaurant in the town 
 
 ‘Business was slow. But it starts picking up. We do a little over 100 pizzas a week. We are not a big city and can’t charge much more than we do.’ 
 
 He said he would not describe himself as a rich man or a near-millionaire because much of the donated money will be given away to what he deems are worthy causes and he will also make up the deficit caused by the enforced shut down. 
 
 The news and entertainment network Blaze began a fundraising campaign on the website GoFundMe to help the O'Connors and the fund stood at $842,592 from 29,166 people when it closed. 
 
 The O’Connors are being advised by financial guru Ed Butowsky, an expert in the investment wealth management industry. 
 
 He said: ‘Mr O’Connor and Crystal are genuine people. He is devastated that he has given Walkerton a bad name and people around the US might view it as a gay hating town. 
 
 ‘It is not that. But the O'Connors believe what they believe and that is their right. They want to share the money they have received and we are discussing how best that should happen. 
 
 ‘Nothing has been decided 100 per cent, but some charities will receive money as will Barronelle Stutzman who they wish to support. 
 
 Christian Ms Stutzman refused to sell flowers for the 2013 wedding of longtime customers Robert Ingersoll and his partner Curt Freed, on religious grounds. 
 
 A judge declared last month that her refusal to sell flowers to the gay wedding couple violated the Washington Law Against Discrimination, which makes bias based on sexual orientation illegal. She was fined $1,000, but a separate fund-raising campaign on her behalf has brought in $94,000 and is rising. ||||| Help Barronelle! (Arlene's Flowers) 
 
 12 HOURS AGO UPDATE #7 
 
 Barronelle Stutzman, a Christian florist, referred her friend and long-time customer to other florists because she could not in good conscience provide full wedding support for a same-sex wedding. Although the couple received flowers, the Washington State Attorney General, and later, the same-sex couple, sued Barronelle. 
 
 
 
 The court found her liable for violating the Washington Law Against Discrimination and ruled that both the state and the couple may collect damages and attorneys' fees from Barronelle's business and personal assets. 
 
 
 
 The 70-year-old grandmother may lose her business, her home, and her savings - because she stood for her faith, she could lose everything she owns! 
 
 
 
 But you can help! 
 
 
 
 Give today to protect Barronelle against the financial risk she faces. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ____________________________________________________________ 
 
 
 
 I am a friend of Barronnlle Stutzman and work for the legal organization helping Barronelle defend her constitutional rights. I am doing this campaign with her knowledge and cooperation. 
 
 
 
 The funds will be held until the legal challenge has been resolved and the full extent of the need is assessed. Funds may be used to help cover any outstanding legal fees and costs imposed from the opposition. Funds may also be used to help replace the assets taken as a result of the legal challenges brought against Barronelle. The total cost to Barronelle is unknown because the legal challenges are ongoing. In the event the funds provided by donors exceed Barronelle’s needs, the funds will be used to cover those same expenses for others who defend their constitutional right to live consistently with their faith. 
 
 
 
 The highest priority is to protect Barronelle and her livelihood. The funds will either be paid directly to Barronelle, a trust established to assist Barronelle, or a non-profit organization that will hold the funds to assist Barronelle and those in similar circumstances. 
 
 21K TOTAL 
 
 SHARES COPY, PASTE & SHARE: http://www.gofundme.com/Arlenesflowers 
 
 What is GoFundMe? ||||| Many customers wait for service as Memories Pizza reopened for business Thursday, April, 9, 2015, in Walkerton, Ind. The restaurant was closed, and its operators said they'd gone into hiding after their... (Associated Press) 
 
 Many customers wait for service as Memories Pizza reopened for business Thursday, April, 9, 2015, in Walkerton, Ind. The restaurant was closed, and its operators said they'd gone into hiding after their... (Associated Press) 
 
 WALKERTON, Ind. (AP) — A northern Indiana pizzeria that closed after its owner said his religious beliefs wouldn't allow him to cater a gay wedding opened Thursday to a full house of friends, regulars and people wanting to show their support. 
 
 "It's a relief to get going again and try to get back to normal," said Kevin O'Connor, owner of Memories Pizza. 
 
 O'Connor closed the shop for eight days after comments by him and his daughter, Crystal, to a local television station supporting a new religious objections law. The law, which has since been revised, sparked a boycott of Indiana. 
 
 O'Connor said the criticism hasn't changed his beliefs. He said gays are welcome in his restaurant in the small, one-traffic-light town of Walkerton, 20 miles southwest of South Bend, but that he would decline to cater a same-sex wedding because it would conflict with his Christian beliefs. 
 
 "I'd do the same thing again. It's my belief. It's our belief. It's what we grew up on," he said. "I'm just sorry it comes to this because neither one of us dislike any of those people. I don't hold any grudges." 
 
 A crowdfunding campaign started by supporters raised more than $842,000 with donations from 29,160 contributors in 48 hours. O'Connor said he hasn't received the money yet, but said he plans to give some to charity and use some money to make improvements to the restaurant. 
 
 The 61-year-old father of eight who has owned the restaurant for nine years said he never thought about taking the money and retiring. 
 
 "I enjoy it. I don't want to leave here," he said. "I want this to be something that my daughter can enjoy." 
 
 Crystal O'Connor said the amount of money was overwhelming. 
 
 "We were like, 'Stop! Stop! Stop!'" she said. 
 
 "It was really making us uncomfortable," her father said. 
 
 The restaurant reopened about 4 p.m. Thursday. He says that within an hour, all eight tables were filled and six people were waiting for carryout orders. There were no protests as of 7 p.m. 
 
 Jeanne and Ken Gumm from outside LaPorte, about 20 miles northwest of Walkerton, said they had been waiting for the pizzeria to reopen so they could show their support. 
 
 "We couldn't wait to get down here," said Ken Gumm, 66, a tank truck driver. "To us this whole thing isn't about gay marriage. It's mostly about freedom of religion."