Source: Multi-News

CANNES, France — Harry Shearer is suing Vivendi’s Universal Music Group and Studiocanal for $125 million for allegedly fraudulent accounting of the music revenues from Rob Reiner’s 1984 film “This is Spinal Tap.” 
 
 Shearer, who co-created and starred in the classic mockumentary, is seeking $125 million in compensatory and punitive damages. 
 
 “This is Spinal Tap” follows the legendary British heavy metal band Spinal Tap as they organize a comeback tour. The spoof was created by Shearer, Christopher Guest, Michael McKean and Rob Reiner. 
 
 Shearer, who co-wrote the soundtrack to the film, filed suit in the Central District Court of California on Tuesday over the alleged underpayment of music royalties. The lawsuit says that Vivendi reported only $98 in total income from soundtrack music sales between 1989 and 2006. As far as worldwide merchandising income, Vivendi reported only $81 between 1984 and 2006, the lawsuit says. 
 
 Vivendi has “failed and refused, and continues to fail and refuse, to provide Plaintiff with proper and accurate accountings reflecting the amount of revenues derived from the distribution and exploitation of the Film and associated music and merchandise rights,” the complaint alleges. ||||| The interactive transcript could not be loaded. 
 
 Rating is available when the video has been rented. 
 
 This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. ||||| Harry Shearer alleges parent company of Universal Music and StudioCanal withheld millions of dollars in profits owed to creators of rock mockumentary 
 
 This is Spinal Tap star sues Vivendi for $125m in profits row 
 
 This is Spinal Tap star Harry Shearer is suing Vivendi, the parent company of Universal Music and StudioCanal, alleging it has withheld millions of dollars in profits owed to the creators of the cult 80s rock mockumentary. 
 
 Shearer, who co-wrote the film and soundtrack and starred as bassist Derek Smalls, has lodged the legal action at the Central District Court of California. 
 
 
 
 Shearer, who has voiced 23 characters on The Simpsons including Ned Flanders and Mr Burns, is claiming $125m (£102m) in compensatory and punitive damages from the French conglomerate. 
 
 
 
 Vivendi acquired the rights to This is Spinal Tap, through its subsidiary StudioCanal, in 1989. 
 
 
 
 Shearer claims that since then, profits from This is Spinal Tap have not been fairly shared between its four creators, cast or crew. 
 
 
 
 “This is a simple issue of artists’ rights,” said Shearer. “It is stunning that after all this time, two cinema releases, all the various home-video format releases, all the records and CDs, and all the band-themed merchandise still widely available worldwide, the only people who haven’t shared Spinal Tap’s success are those who formed the band and created the film in the first place.” 
 
 
 
 Harry Shearer (@theharryshearer) I’m going up against @vivendi and @studiocanal to ensure #fairplayfairpay for the movie #SpinalTap - #fairnessrocks pic.twitter.com/fTG23OMbsW 
 
 This is Spinal Tap was created by Shearer, Christopher Guest, who went on to co-write and direct dog competition mockumentary Best in Show, Rob Reiner and Michael McKean. 
 
 
 
 The legal complaint alleges that between 1989 and 2006, Vivendi reported that the total income from soundtrack music sales was just $98. 
 
 
 
 And in addition, it claims Vivendi reported that the four creators’ share of total worldwide merchandising income between 1984 and 2006 was $81. 
 
 
 
 The lawsuit names Ron Halpern, who has been in charge of international productions and acquisitions for StudioCanal since 2007, as a co-defendant in the claim. Vivendi’s agents are named as StudioCanal and Universal Music. 
 
 
 
 “Though I’ve launched this lawsuit on my own, it is in reality a challenge to the company on behalf of all creators of popular films whose talent has not been fairly remunerated,” said Shearer. “I hope this lawsuit will help set a new precedent for … fair artistic compensation industry-wide.” 
 
 
 
 In 1982, the four co-creators signed an agreement with Embassy Pictures for the production, financing and distribution of This is Spinal Tap. 
 
 
 
 Shearer claims the agreement included profit participation payments at 40% of net receipts bases on all sources of revenue, including merchandise and music. 
 
 
 
 The film, which had a shoe-string budget of $2.25m, was released in 1984 and became a global cult classic. 
 
 
 
 Vivendi acquired the rights to Spinal Tap in 1989, and Shearer’s legal action claims it began a “concerted and fraudulent campaign to hide, or grossly underreport, the film’s revenues in order to avoid its profit participation obligations”. 
 
 
 
 A Vivendi spokesman declined to comment on the legal action. ||||| Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Shearer accuses Vivendi of using "blatantly unfair business practices" 
 
 Harry Shearer is taking legal action against entertainment group Vivendi, claiming it has denied him and others profits from 1984's This is Spinal Tap. 
 
 Shearer alleges that Vivendi, which acquired the film in 1989, engaged in fraud to hide revenues. 
 
 The Simpsons actor is seeking $125m (£102m) in compensatory and punitive damages. 
 
 Vivendi's UK representative declined to comment when asked to do so by the BBC News website. 
 
 "I think it's important to challenge the status quo, not just for myself but for all my fellow artists, musicians and creators," Shearer, 72, said in a video posted on Twitter. 
 
 His legal action claims that, "according to Vivendi", the four creators' share of merchandising income between 1984 and 2006 was just $81 (£66). 
 
 Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Shearer appears as 'Derek Smalls' in the film and when playing with Spinal Tap 
 
 Directed by Rob Reiner, This is Spinal Tap followed the misfortunes of a fictional British rock band as it promotes its latest record. 
 
 Shearer, who also voices Simpsons characters as Mr Burns and Ned Flanders, said he, Reiner and the film and band's other creators - Christopher Guest and Michael McKean - had "poured themselves into nurturing and perfecting the paean to rock loudness that has entertained so many people". 
 
 Despite the film's success, he said, the four had fallen victim to "fuzzy... entertainment industry accounting schemes" that also had affected others in the industry. 
 
 "It is stunning that after all this time... the only people who haven't shared Spinal Tap's success are those who formed the band and created the film in the first place," he added. 
 
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Christopher Guest discusses This is Spinal Tap on Radio 4's Today programme 
 
 Shearer accuses Vivendi of "wilfully manipulating certain accounting data" and "ignoring contractually-obligated accounting and reporting processes". 
 
 "Vivendi and its subsidiaries... have, at least in our case, conducted blatantly unfair business practices," he went on, referencing StudioCanal and Universal Music Group. 
 
 Follow us on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, on Instagram at bbcnewsents, or if you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.