Source: Multi-News

Transcript for Rep. Peter King Blasts Speaker Boehner on House Floor 
 
 Majority leader -- -- very straightforward. Very direct last night I know that he was fighting to get the bill on the yet calendar it was a -- do whatever reason walked off the flaw. And said that the bill was being Paul. I don't enjoy saying -- I consider myself. A personal friend to John Boehner and John -- personally as a very helpful to me over the years so it pains me to say this but the fact is -- Dismissive attitude that was shown last night. Toward new York New Jersey Connecticut. -- of the leaders strain in the Republican Party and oh this is not the place to discuss politics. But that politics seeped over into a government -- decision that was made I can imagine. That type -- different that -- disregard that cavalier attitude being shown to any other part of the country when people we're talking about real. Life and death situation idea just -- -- speak or walk -- not even tell -- He tells an aide to majority -- who tells us that we -- -- majority leader that the item that means life and death. Was taken off the calendar and is gone for the session now they say it's a report cracked open January. While the fact is let's be real we're not in session next week. The following week recession for two days the following week is the inauguration recessions and two days then we have the state of the union. Committees haven't even organized yet and does anyone believe if they wouldn't vote is -- sixty to sixty point four billion dollars last night. That the Appropriations -- it's only gonna. I get religion and is on multiple amount when we know what their attitude is that somehow money going to new York and New Jersey Connecticut is corrupt money when money going to this -- -- -- honorable. And I would just say that. These people have no problem finding New York when it comes to raising money. It's only when it comes to allocating money that can't find the ability to do so I'm standing here in the house floor tonight they we have a moral obligation. As Republicans as Democrats as Americans. I spoke to governor Chris the F -- to Governor Cuomo we've been Constant Contact the Mayor Bloomberg we cannot believe that this. Cruel knife in the back was delivered to our region I have to go home this weekend and next week the week after and -- hundreds of thousands of people. Or out of -- homes who don't have shelter who donor of food. And there -- living with relatives friends living in trailers this is not United States of America. This should not be the Republican Party this should not be the Republican leadership and I'm -- you speak. Tell how Rodgers tell these people who somehow. It's become very sanctimonious. When it comes to -- new York and New Jersey that they have an obligation to do what they have to do and that's provide the aid and relief that we need if there's one -- That they have a problem with let us know but don't walk out the -- -- at a Norris you're not my time. 
 
 This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate. ||||| Published on 
 
 Congressman LoBiondo joins his colleagues from New Jersey and New York to express their extreme frustration and anger that the House of Representatives would adjourn without considering the Hurricane Sandy emergency supplemental bill. ||||| Story highlights "Why should we believe (Boehner) at all?" asks New York City Council speaker 
 
 Vote on the relief bill is a priority, Speaker Boehner and Majority Leader Cantor say 
 
 President Obama: "Our citizens are still trying to put their lives back together" 
 
 "We're getting what New York and New Jersey need," Rep. King says 
 
 The promise of $60 billion can do a lot to calm outrage. 
 
 That point was underscored Wednesday, when House leaders met with irate representatives from New York and New Jersey who felt they had been ignored by House Speaker John Boehner when he scrapped a planned vote late Tuesday on a massive aid package for Superstorm Sandy victims. 
 
 "We're getting what New York and New Jersey need, and that's all that counts," Rep. Peter King, R-New York, told reporters after emerging from a 20-minute meeting with Boehner and House Majority Leader Eric Cantor. "We're all big boys; we understand that all that counts is the bottom line." 
 
 A vote on $9 billion for immediate aid is now set for Friday, with the balance of $51 billion due for consideration January 15. 
 
 JUST WATCHED Christie: Boehner wouldn't take my calls Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Christie: Boehner wouldn't take my calls 06:00 
 
 JUST WATCHED Sandy victim to Congress: 'You stink' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sandy victim to Congress: 'You stink' 01:57 
 
 JUST WATCHED GOP's King bashes own party over Sandy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH GOP's King bashes own party over Sandy 01:19 
 
 For its part, the Senate plans to vote by unanimous consent on Friday on the $9 billion but is waiting to see what is in the larger package before announcing a plan for that, a Senate Democratic leadership aide said. 
 
 "On the second tranche, we will need to see more details before we decide how to proceed," the aide said. "As the Senate has shown by passing our bipartisan bill, we consider getting aid to the victims of Sandy a superlative priority, but we need to know more about the contents of the bill before deciding on a path forward." 
 
 Democrats were less mollified. 
 
 "While it would have been far better had they passed the Senate's bill today, at least this provides a path to produce the needed $60 billion for New York and New Jersey by the end of the month," said Sen. Charles Schumer, D-New York, in a statement. 
 
 "It's really unbelievable how Speaker Boehner and his party could just walk away," said Christine Quinn, speaker of the New York City Council. "To promise us a vote weeks from now? Why should we believe him at all? It's just shocking." 
 
 In a statement, Boehner and Cantor said "critical aid" to storm victims should be the first priority of the new Congress, which convenes Thursday. 
 
 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Cleaning crews work in Manhattan's financial district following damage from Superstorm Sandy on Monday, November 12. View photos of New York's recovery. Hide Caption 1 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Evelyn Faherty hugs a friend on Sunday, November 11, while discussing the damage done to her home by Superstorm Sandy in the Breezy Point neighborhood of Queens, New York. Hide Caption 2 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Volunteers shovel sand and water out of the basement of Monir Islam's home in the Rockaway Park neighborhood of Queens, New York, on Sunday. The Rockaways peninsula in Queens was one of the areas hardest hit by Sandy. See photos of Rockaway's continuing struggles Hide Caption 3 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Furniture and other belongings are strewn under and around a beach house damaged by Sandy on Saturday, November 10, in Mystic Island, New Jersey. Hide Caption 4 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Streets in Ortley Beach, New Jersey, were destroyed by Sandy. Hide Caption 5 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Clean-up continues on Saturday, November 10 among piles of debris where a large section of the iconic boardwalk was washed away in the heavily damaged Rockaways. Hide Caption 6 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Mac Baker, right, poses with her niece Nytaisha Baker next to pots of water she heats on the floor with small flames for a bit of warmth in Baker's unheated apartment in the Ocean Bay public housing projects in the Far Rockaway neighborhood in Queens on Friday, November 9. Hide Caption 7 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Theresa Goddard, her apartment still without electricity, is overwhelmed while discussing her living conditions on Thursday, November 8, in the Brooklyn borough of New York. Hide Caption 8 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A police officer carries blankets donated by Ikea for people affected by Superstorm Sandy in Brooklyn. Hide Caption 9 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Debris from Superstorm Sandy is seen on a beach Thursday in Long Branch, New Jersey. Hide Caption 10 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Troops from the 26th Marine Expeditionary Unit and the U.S. Navy help local residents remove household items damaged by Superstorm Sandy on November 6, in the New Dorp Beach neighborhood of Staten Island, New York. Hide Caption 11 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Voter Sheresa Walker uses a flashlight for poll worker Lloyd Edwards in a tent set up as a polling place in Queens, New York. Hide Caption 12 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A poll worker directs people to a temporary polling center in the Coney Island section of Brooklyn, New York. Polling sites in Coney Island and the surrounding area were damaged during Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 13 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Michael Fischkelta, 8, lies on his cot with his mother, Jenifer Wilson, in a Red Cross evacuation shelter set up in the gymnasium of Toms River High School on Monday, November 5, in Toms River, New Jersey. View photos of the recovery efforts in New York. Hide Caption 14 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Ruth Hawfield sits next to her cot Monday in a Red Cross evacuation shelter at Toms River High School. Hide Caption 15 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A woman fills out an early voting ballot on Sunday, November 4, in Jersey City, New Jersey. Gov. Chris Christie ordered early voting stations to stay open through the weekend in an effort to get people to vote despite the damage done by Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 16 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A woman sifts through her mother's damaged home for items to save Sunday in the Breezy Point neighborhood of Queens, New York. Hide Caption 17 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A workman repairs damage to the steeple of the First United Methodist Church on Sunday in Port Jefferson, New York. Hide Caption 18 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People sift through their damaged home on Sunday in Breezy Point. Hide Caption 19 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A statue of a firefighter stands in front of a burned down house Sunday in Rockaway, New York. Hide Caption 20 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Abraham Cambrelen, 19, takes the Staten Island Ferry to go check on his mother Sunday while New York recovers from Hurricane Sandy. Hide Caption 21 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Crowds wait for free gas on Saturday, November 3, at the Bedford Avenue Armory in Brooklyn, New York. Hide Caption 22 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A house sits devastated by Superstorm Sandy on Friday, November 2, in Union Beach, New Jersey. The cost of the storm's damage in the U.S. is estimated at between $30 billion and $50 billion, according to disaster modeling firm Eqecat. Hide Caption 23 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A baby picture lies beneath rubble in a neighborhood devastated by the storm in Union Beach on Friday. Hide Caption 24 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Flood-damaged belongings sit on the side of the road in Union Beach on Friday. Hide Caption 25 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Park Choul works by flashlight in his deli in New York's East Village on Thursday, November 1. More than 3.3 million customers remained without electricity in 15 states and the District of Columbia four days after Sandy barreled ashore. Hide Caption 26 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Geronimo Harrison's apartment in the East Village remains without power or water Thursday. He's using candles for light and a gas stove for heat. Hide Caption 27 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Water gets pumped out of a business in the East Village on Thursday. Hide Caption 28 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A roller coaster sits in the Atlantic Ocean on Thursday after the Fun Town pier it sat on in Seaside Heights, New Jersey, was destroyed by Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 29 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Amusement-park rides lie mangled on the beach after the Fun Town pier in Seaside Heights was destroyed. Hide Caption 30 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – The arcade at the FunTown pier in Seaside Heights is in ruins. Storm damage is expected to cost tens of billions of dollars. Hide Caption 31 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – The inside of a gas pump is exposed at a closed station that was recently under floodwater on Thursday, November 1, in Hoboken, New Jersey. Superstorm Sandy, which made landfall along the New Jersey shore, has left the state with a fuel shortage due to logistical problems and power failures. Hide Caption 32 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People wait in line for fuel at a Shell Oil station onThursday in Fort Lee, New Jersey. Fuel shortages have led to long lines of cars at gasoline stations in many states. Hide Caption 33 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Cars wait in line for fuel at a Gulf gas station in Fort Lee, New Jersey. Hide Caption 34 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A woman leaves an Exxon gas station that was out of fuel on Thursday in North Bergen, New Jersey. Hide Caption 35 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Bridget De La Torre holds her daughter Neve, 3, as daughter Paz sits nearby while they rest and charge devices on Thursday. They were at a shelter for those affected by Superstorm Sandy at Saints Peter and Paul Church in Hoboken, New Jersey. Bridget's family has no electricity or hot water, and their car was destroyed by flooding. Hide Caption 36 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Waves break in front of an amusement park destroyed by Superstorm Sandy on Wednesday, October 31, in Seaside Heights, New Jersey. At least 56 people were killed in the storm. New Jersey suffered massive damage and power outages. Hide Caption 37 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People walk near the remains of burned homes in the Breezy Point neighborhood of Queens, New York, on Wednesday. Hide Caption 38 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – An overview of the fire damage in Queens, New York, following Hurricane Sandy. Residents in hard-hit areas sifted through the wreckage of Sandy on Wednesday as millions remained without power. Hide Caption 39 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Buildings on the shoreline are pictured from Air Force One as it prepares to land in Atlantic City, New Jersey, carrying President Barack Obama, who visited areas hardest hit by the unprecedented storm. Hide Caption 40 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – President Barack Obama speaks as New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie looks on, as they visit a shelter for Hurricane Sandy victims in Brigantine, New Jersey. Hide Caption 41 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – The shadow of Air Force One is cast on the water as it prepares to land in Atlantic City on Wednesday, October 31. Hide Caption 42 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Residents in the Rockaway section of Queens, New York, wait to charge their phones at a government generator. Kennedy International Airport in New York and Newark Liberty International Airport in New Jersey resumed operations on limited schedules Wednesday, and the New York Stock Exchange commenced trading after being closed for two days. Hide Caption 43 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Motorists drive through standing water in Hoboken, New Jersey. Known as the Mile Square City, the low-lying neighborhoods suffered deep flooding resulting from the storm surge associated with Hurricane Sandy. Hide Caption 44 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A member of Army National Guard Unit Gulf 250 from Morristown, New Jersey, evacuates victims of Hurricane Sandy in Hoboken on Wednesday, October 31. Hide Caption 45 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Residents traverse flooded streets as clean up operations begin in Hoboken, New Jersey. Hide Caption 46 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – New Jersey Natural Gas technician Carlos Rojas inspects a leaking gas main that is under water at a home damaged by Hurricane Sandy in Long Beach Island, New Jersey. Hide Caption 47 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A resident looks through the remnants of his home in the Breezy Point neighborhood of Queens, New York. Hide Caption 48 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Flood-damaged streets are viewed in the Rockaway section of Queens, New York, where the historic boardwalk was washed away due to Hurricane Sandy. Hide Caption 49 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People walk past homes damaged by Hurricane Sandy in Long Beach Island, New Jersey. Hide Caption 50 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Traders stand outside of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on Wednesday, October 31. U.S. equity markets resumed trading Wednesday for the first time this week after Hurricane Sandy. Hide Caption 51 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People board the ferry, one of the few functioning transportation systems, in Hoboken, New Jersey, on Wednesday, October 31. Hide Caption 52 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Members of the State University of New York Maritime Academy aid in the relief efforts, using row boats to help victims from in Hoboken, New Jersey. Hide Caption 53 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Jimmy Lee, owner of The Nail Store, begins the cleanup of his shop from damage done by Hurricane Sandy in Hoboken, New Jersey. Hide Caption 54 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Blaine Badick and her fiancee Andrew Grapsas cross a flooded street with their dog while leaving their home in Hoboken. Hide Caption 55 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Residents walk through the area where the boardwalk was washed away in the Rockaway neighborhood of Queens, New York, on Wednesday. Hide Caption 56 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – The Rockaway boardwalk in Queens, New York, was stripped down to the piers by Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 57 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People look at a damaged section of the Rockaway boardwalk in Queens, New York, on Wednesday. Hide Caption 58 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People walk down a flooded street on Wednesday, October 31, in Hoboken, New Jersey. Hide Caption 59 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A man charges his cellphone at a home that still has power in Hoboken, New Jersey, on Wednesday, October 31. As of Wednesday afternoon, more than 2 million customers in New Jersey were without power. Hide Caption 60 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A firefighter stands on the porch of a home destroyed by fire in Queens on Wednesday. Hide Caption 61 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Customers line up to buy supplies at an Ace Hardware with a power generator in Hoboken, New Jersey, on Wednesday. Hide Caption 62 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Superstorm Sandy stripped the steps from the deck of this home in Long Beach Island, New Jersey. Hide Caption 63 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Superstorm Sandy left a car buried in sand in Long Beach Island, New Jersey. Hide Caption 64 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A helicopter flies past damaged homes in Long Beach Island, New Jersey, on Wednesday, October 31. Hide Caption 65 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A man makes his way through floodwater and debris in Long Beach Island, New Jersey, on Wednesday. Hide Caption 66 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A police car patrols an empty waterfront neighborhood without power in Atlantic City, New Jersey, on Wednesday. Hide Caption 67 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Concrete piers are all that remain of the destroyed boardwalk in Atlantic City on Wednesday. Hide Caption 68 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Debris from damaged property and the remains of a boardwalk litter the shoreline in Atlantic City on Wednesday. Hide Caption 69 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Waterfront property in Atlantic City lays in tatters on Wednesday. Transportation in the state was crippled by floodwaters, as well. Hide Caption 70 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – "We are in a state of crisis all across this state," Newark, New Jersey, Mayor Cory Booker told CNN on Wednesday. "It's going to be a challenging time." Hide Caption 71 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A police car patrols an empty waterfront neighborhood that lost power at dawn in Atlantic City, New Jersey, on Wednesday. Hide Caption 72 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People wait for buses along New York's Sixth Avenue on Wednesday. Hide Caption 73 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Superstorm Sandy stripped New York's historic Rockaway boardwalk down to its foundation. Hide Caption 74 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A woman examines damage to the Rockaway neighborhood in New York on Wednesday. Hide Caption 75 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Commuters ride a NY Waterway ferry from Jersey City, New Jersey, on Wednesday, the first day of operation since the storm hit. Hide Caption 76 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A man rides on the front of a forklift while recording flood damage for insurance purposes in Little Ferry, New Jersey, on Wednesday. Hide Caption 77 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Con Edison employee John Shammah pauses while working on a steam pipe on First Avenue in New York City on Wednesday. Hide Caption 78 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – CNN iReporter Jordan Shapiro captured this view of the Williamsburg Bridge in New York at 11 p.m. on Tuesday, October 30. Half of the bridge and Brooklyn is lit, while the Manhattan side and the surrounding part of the island remain shrouded in darkness. Hide Caption 79 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Dog owners in Alexandria, Virginia, gathered to see the flood waters left by Hurricane Sandy on Tuesday. Hide Caption 80 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Taxis sit in a flooded lot Tuesday in Hoboken, New Jersey. Hide Caption 81 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People take pictures of a flooded street Tuesday in Hoboken. Hide Caption 82 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A man stands near a homemade road block on Tuesday in Little Ferry, New Jersey. Hide Caption 83 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People wait in line to fill containers with gas at a Shell station in Edison, New Jersey, on Tuesday. Superstorm Sandy left much of Bergen County flooded and without power. Hide Caption 84 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Aerial images from the U.S. Coast Guard show the coastline in Brigantine, New Jersey, on Tuesday. Sandy struck land near Atlantic City, New Jersey, around high tide Monday night. Hide Caption 85 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Homes and other buildings in Brigantine were destroyed in Sandy's wake. New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie described the devastation in the state as "unthinkable." Hide Caption 86 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Brigantine saw extensive damage from high winds and flooding. Hide Caption 87 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Homes are flooded Tuesday in Tuckerton, New Jersey. President Barack Obama signed major disaster declarations for New Jersey and New York, clearing the way for federal aid. Hide Caption 88 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A resident walks down a street covered in beach sand due to flooding from Hurricane Sandy in Long Beach, New York on Tuesday. Hide Caption 89 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Firefighters work to extinguish flames in a home in the Breezy Point neighborhood of Queens on Tuesday. The massive fire broke out during the storm and destroyed at least 80 homes Hide Caption 90 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Ted Wondsel, owner of Ted's Fishing Station in Long Beach, assesses the damage to his business Tuesday. Hide Caption 91 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People wait outside a shelter at the Bergen County Technical Schools Teterboro Campus on Tuesday in Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey. Hide Caption 92 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Utility workers from Delmarva Power replace a power pole that was damaged during Hurricane Sandy in Ocean City, Maryland, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 93 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Dale Kelly sits on a bench Tuesday on a flooded street in Ocean City, New Jersey, which was hit hard by Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 94 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Ted Wondsel, left, of Point Lookout works on part of a dock destroyed in the storm in Long Beach on Tuesday. Hide Caption 95 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – West Broadway in Long Beach is covered in beach sand due to flooding from Hurricane Sandy on Tuesday. Hide Caption 96 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Residents walk along a street covered in beach sand after floodwaters from Superstorm Sandy retreated Tuesday in Long Beach. Hide Caption 97 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A small plane damaged in the storm sits on a runway in Farmingdale, New York, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 98 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Streets remain flooded in portions of Ocean City, New Jersey. Hide Caption 99 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Utility workers repair a traffic signal damaged by the storm in Ocean City, New Jersey, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 100 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A Virgin Mary statue stands in the Breezy Point neighborhood of Queens, New York, on Tuesday after a fire fed by high winds destroyed at least 80 homes, officials said. Hide Caption 101 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – President Barack Obama outlines the federal government's response to Superstorm Sandy at the Red Cross headquarters in Washington. Hide Caption 102 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Firefighters work to contain the fire in Queens on Tuesday. Some 200 firefighters battled the six-alarm blaze. Hide Caption 103 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A man surveys damage to sailboats Tuesday at a marina on City Island in New York. Hide Caption 104 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – "My message to the federal government: no bureaucracy, no red tape, get resources where they're needed as fast as possible, as hard as possible, and for the duration," Obama said in Washington Tuesday. Both Obama and Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney canceled campaign events. Hide Caption 105 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People stand on a mound of construction dirt on Tuesday to view a section of the uptown boardwalk in Atlantic City, New Jersey, that was destroyed by flooding. Hide Caption 106 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A firefighter looks through debris in Queens on Tuesday. In September, the same area endured severe weather as a powerful cold front brought heavy rain, high winds and a tornado. Hide Caption 107 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A malfunctioning generator billows black smoke at a building in New York on Tuesday. Hide Caption 108 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Mitt Romney helps gather donated goods for storm relief Tuesday in Kettering, Ohio. Hide Caption 109 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Emergency personnel help a resident of Little Ferry, New Jersey, onto a boat after rescuing her from floodwater on Tuesday. Hide Caption 110 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Dean Walter, left. and Henry Young walk along a seawall in Scituate, Massachusetts, with their surfboards after going into the heavy surf for about 20 minutes on Tuesday. Hide Caption 111 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Superstorm Sandy left New York's South Street Seaport flooded and covered in debris on Tuesday. Hide Caption 112 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Passers-by look at a car that was crushed by a tree near New York's financial district on Tuesday. Hide Caption 113 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Pedestrians and bikers cross the Brooklyn Bridge after the storm on Tuesday. Hide Caption 114 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People stand among the debris of the destroyed section of Atlantic City, New Jersey's, uptown boardwalk on Tuesday. Hide Caption 115 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Sailboats rest on the ground after being tipped over by Superstorm Sandy on City Island, New York, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 116 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Onlookers watch a dangling crane, damaged in the winds of Superstorm Sandy, atop a luxury high-rise under construction in midtown Manhattan on Tuesday. Hide Caption 117 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – An onlooker snaps a photo of the damaged crane on Tuesday. Hide Caption 118 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Jolito Ortiz helps clean up a friend's apartment on New York's lower east side on Tuesday. Hide Caption 119 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A tidal surge created by Sandy flooded the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel in New York on Tuesday. Hide Caption 120 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A worker cuts down a tree near American University in Washington on Tuesday. Hide Caption 121 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A home badly damaged by Superstorm Sandy sits along the shoreline in Milford, Connecticut, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 122 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – An emergency worker carries a resident through floodwaters in Little Ferry, New Jersey, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 123 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Police walk past debris left by the storm at Battery Park in New York on Tuesday. Hide Caption 124 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Floodwater splashes into the window of a building on the shore in Bellport, New York, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 125 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Rescue workers use a hovercraft to rescue a resident using a wheelchair from floodwaters in Little Ferry, New Jersey, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 126 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A resident of Little Ferry, New Jersey, assists in rescue efforts with his personal watercraft on Tuesday. Hide Caption 127 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – The HMS Bounty, a 180-foot sailboat, is submerged in the Atlantic Ocean about 90 miles southeast of Hatteras, North Carolina, on Monday, October 29. Hide Caption 128 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A man walks through the debris of a 2,000-foot section of Atlantic City, New Jersey's "uptown" boardwalk on Tuesday. It was destroyed by flooding from Sandy. Hide Caption 129 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Downed trees are removed near the Korean War Veterans Memorial in Washington on Tuesday. Hide Caption 130 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Heavy surf buckles Ocean Avenue in Avalon, New Jersey, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 131 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Sam Rigby walks on Tuesday near an uprooted tree that grazed his house and hit his neighbor's house in Washington. Hide Caption 132 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A photographer shoots waves in Lake Michigan generated by the remnants of Sandy as they crash into the Chicago shoreline on Tuesday. Hide Caption 133 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A police officer helps remove a tree branch brought down during the storm in Washington on Tuesday. Hide Caption 134 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy 11.sandy.damage.1030 – A man takes pictures of cars from the steps of a home on a flooded street at Hoboken in New Jersey, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 135 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A woman wades through water at the South Street Seaport in New York City on Tuesday. Hide Caption 136 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A street light and utility pole lie on the street in Avalon, New Jersey, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 137 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Atlantic City, New Jersey, resident Kim Johnson inspects the area around her flooded apartment building on Tuesday. Hide Caption 138 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A power line knocked over by a falling tree blocks a street in Chevy Chase, Maryland, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 139 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Workers shovel debris from the streets in Ocean City, Maryland, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 140 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A U.S. Coast Guard helicopter flies over Central Park in New York on Tuesday. Hide Caption 141 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A man jogs near a darkened Manhattan skyline on Tuesday after much of New York City lost electricity. Hide Caption 142 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Workers clear a tree blocking East 96th Street in Central Park in New York on Tuesday. View more photos of the recovery efforts in New York. Hide Caption 143 of 143 
 
 The comity contrasted sharply with the outrage that had exploded earlier in the day over Congress' inaction on the package, pitting even fellow Republicans against Boehner. 
 
 It was "disappointing and disgusting to watch," said New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, blaming "the toxic internal politics of the House majority." 
 
 "New Jersey deserves better than the duplicity we saw on display," he said, adding, "shame on Congress." 
 
 Christie, a Republican, said he had tried to reach Boehner on Tuesday night after the latter canceled a vote on the aid bill, which had already been approved by the Senate. "He did not take my calls," said Christie. 
 
 In a news conference, Christie said he joined people of his state in feeling "betrayed" and added that the move summarizes "why the American people hate Congress." 
 
 In a statement, Christie and New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo wrote: "This failure to come to the aid of Americans following a severe and devastating natural disaster is unprecedented. The fact that days continue to go by while people suffer, families are out of their homes, and men and women remain jobless and struggling during these harsh winter months is a dereliction of duty. " 
 
 Boehner did not make public remarks and did not post about the issue on social media. 
 
 GOP leadership sources said Boehner was worried it would be a bad political move for him to allow a vote on the new federal spending after a long day of getting pummeled by his own House Republicans for not demanding enough spending cuts in the fiscal cliff bill. 
 
 Civility was restored late in the afternoon. "As far as I'm concerned, that was a lifetime ago," King said. "I know it was last night, but the bottom line is we're going forward getting what we believe is necessary." 
 
 Earlier, King had slammed his own party. "The Republican Party has said it's the party of 'family values.' Last night, it turned its back on the most essential value of all, and that's to provide food, shelter, clothing and relief for people who have been hit by a natural disaster," King told CNN. 
 
 King said he chased Boehner "all over the House last night" and that Boehner had said everything would be taken care of after the vote on the fiscal cliff. But Boehner left. 
 
 King called the House leadership's move a "knife in the back." 
 
 "Anyone from New York or New Jersey who contributes one penny to the Republican Congressional Campaign Committee should have their head examined," King said. It's very rare for a lawmaker to call on anyone not to support his own party. 
 
 But on Wednesday afternoon, King said he would vote for Boehner in leadership elections scheduled for Thursday. 
 
 A senior GOP leadership aide said Boehner will make a Sandy aid package "his first priority in the new Congress," which begins its term Thursday. 
 
 When a new Congress begins, both chambers have to begin from scratch with legislation, so the Senate's passage of a previous bill will be moot. 
 
 Michael Steel, Boehner's spokesman, said the speaker is "committed to getting this bill passed this month." 
 
 Before the House adjourned Wednesday, President Barack Obama urged a vote. 
 
 "It has only been two months since Hurricane Sandy devastated communities across New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut as well as other Eastern states. Our citizens are still trying to put their lives back together," Obama said in a statement. 
 
 "When tragedy strikes, Americans come together to support those in need. I urge Republicans in the House of Representatives to do the same, bring this important request to a vote today, and pass it without delay for our fellow Americans," Obama said. 
 
 Scott Mandel, vice president of New York's Long Beach City Council, told CNN, "The money was needed yesterday, and the fact that there's an obstacle in the way for whatever reason and a vote wasn't allowed to go forward was inexcusable." 
 
 The money would improve the city's ability to withstand damage from winter storms, Mandel said. 
 
 Fiscal cliff battle held up the measure 
 
 The tumultuous process of getting the fiscal cliff deal passed in the House had held up the relief measure, and many House Republicans opposed the size of the Senate bill. 
 
 "Leadership was all-consumed with the cliff procedure," Rogers told reporters off the House floor late Tuesday. "And they really have not had the time to devote to this because of that." 
 
 Sandy killed at least 113 people in the United States and left millions of people without power after running up the East Coast in late October. The storm hit hardest in New York and New Jersey. 
 
 Cuomo has put storm-related costs at $41.9 billion, while Christie has estimated a price tag of $36.8 billion. 
 
 The bill includes grant funding for owners of homes and businesses, as well as funding for public improvement projects on the electrical grid, hospitals and transit systems to prevent damage from future storms. 
 
 John Stone, a resident of New York's Staten Island, owned two homes before the storm. One was destroyed; the other was so severely flooded that it remains unlivable. 
 
 But he expressed no anger over the House's decision. "They'll just have to do it all over again, I suppose. What can you say?" 
 
 "It's a lot of money," he said, adding "there's a lot of other things they've got to do." 
 
 He tends to vote Republican and doesn't plan to turn away from the party, he said, although, he added, "I don't give them much money anyway." 
 
 He's been living with relatives in New Jersey. ||||| 6 years ago 
 
 (CNN) – In a rare display of fierce intraparty sniping, New Jersey's Republican Gov. Chris Christie took the GOP House speaker to task for delaying a vote on federal funding for states affected by the devastating superstorm Sandy. 
 
 Christie, speaking the day after the Republican-controlled House of Representatives refused to take up the $60 billion relief measure already passed by the Senate, said culpability for sustained distress in his state rested solely upon GOP lawmakers. 
 
 
 
 "There is only one group to blame for the continued suffering of these innocent victims: the House majority and their speaker, John Boehner," Christie said. "This is not a Republican or Democratic issue. National disasters happen in red states and blue states and states with Democratic governors and Republican governors." 
 
 Christie was the latest Republican to voice his disapproval of the House after last night's inaction. The House stands in recess until 11 a.m. ET Thursday – the day a new Congress will be sworn in. It remains unclear whether a last-minute vote could happen in the current Congress. 
 
 Any measure not voted upon by the end of this session would have to be re-voted upon by the Senate. 
 
 Christie said Wednesday that House Republicans were breaking a longstanding vow to help states devastated by natural disasters. 
 
 "We respond to innocent victims of natural disasters, not as Republicans or Democrats, but as Americans," he said. "Or at least we did until last night. Last night politics was placed before hosts to serve our citizens. For me, it was disappointing and disgusting to watch." 
 
 Leaders in Washington assured Christie and New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo the funding votes would happen on Tuesday or Wednesday, according to the New Jersey governor. The decision not to hold the vote was Boehner's, he said. ||||| 
 
 
 
 U.S. Rep. Frank LoBiondo (R-2) got into it Tuesday with Speaker John Boehner over Hurricane Sandy funding. 
 
 House Majority Leader Eric Cantor told LoBiondo that the House would consider $60 billion in Hurricane Sandy funding immediately following a resolution of the fiscal cliff. But Monday night came and went and LoBiondo and others approached Boehner Tuesday afternoon to get a hard answer on a delayed Hurricane Sandy vote. 
 
 Boehner yelled at LoBiondo. 
 
 In the lead-up to the confrontation, LoBiondo had every expectation that Boehner would move swiftly to put Sandy relief to a vote. 
 
 It didn’t happen. 
 
 “I kept asking Eric, not just myself, but a number of us,” LoBiondo told PolitickerNJ.com. “He said ‘I’m ready to go but don’t have the green light to go.' By late afternoon I asked for a meeting. His reaction was not what I expected. It’s not how it needed to be handled. We were told there will not be a decision until after the fiscal cliff.” 
 
 LoBiondo said municipalities are counting on the feds to help rebuild. 
 
 “This is absurd. I’ve never been this angry,” LoBiondo said. “Sen. Menendez and other Democrats were very helpful. This could have been a poster child for bipartisanship, instead, this is what we have.” 
 
 Boehner has scheduled a meeting for 3 p.m. to consider the matter, the congressman said.