Source: Multi-News

Just One More Thing... 
 
 We have sent you a verification email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your AJC.com profile. 
 
 If you do not receive the verification message within a few minutes of signing up, please check your Spam or Junk folder. 
 
 Close ||||| The interactive transcript could not be loaded. 
 
 Rating is available when the video has been rented. 
 
 This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. ||||| DEKALB COUNTY, Ga. -- A grand jury has indicted two nurses and an aide on numerous charges, including felony murder in one case, in the death of an elderly patient who slowly died in front of them. 
 
 In November, the Brookhaven Police Department launched a criminal investigation into 89-year-old James Dempsey’s death after an 11Alive Investigation uncovered hidden camera video and court depositions of nursing home staff who responded to the World War II veteran. 
 
 It happened at Northeast Atlanta Health and Rehabilitation in 2014. 11Alive obtained both videos in 2017 through public records requests after the family filed a lawsuit. 
 
 The video showed Dempsey repeatedly calling out for help as he suffered in respiratory distress. After his calls, Dempsey became unresponsive. 
 
 READ | Hidden camera tells true story of how veteran died after calling for help, gasping for air 
 
 On Wednesday, charges were announced. 
 
 Former nurse Loyce Pickquet Agyeman, of Snellville, Georgia is charged with felony murder and neglect to an elder person. 
 
 Sign up for the daily Speed Feed Newsletter Sign up for the daily Speed Feed Newsletter Something went wrong. This email will be delivered to your inbox once a day in the morning. Thank you for signing up for the Speed Feed Newsletter. Please try again later. 
 
 Submit 
 
 PHOTOS: How a senior care facility failed Mr. Dempsey (story continues below) 
 
 PHOTOS: How a senior care facility failed Mr. Dempsey 
 
 Wanda Nuckles of Buford, also a former nurse, is charged with depriving an elder person of essential Services, while Mable Turman, a certified nurse assistant from College Park, is charged with neglect to an elder person. 
 
 All three women were also indicted on a single count of concealing the death of another in the five-count indictment returned by grand jurors Tuesday afternoon. 
 
 RELATED: 3 nursing staff were seen ignoring the veteran's cries. This is why one is charged with murder 
 
 In the video deposition, Nuckles originally told Dempsey family attorney Mike Prieto that she rushed to Dempsey's room when a nurse told her that he had stopped breathing. 
 
 Prieto: “From the time you came in, you took over doing chest compressions…correct?” 
 
 Nuckles : “Yes.” 
 
 Prieto: “Until the time paramedics arrive, you were giving CPR continuously?” 
 
 Nuckles : “Yes.” 
 
 The video, however, shows no one doing CPR when Nuckles entered the room. She also did not immediately start doing CPR. 
 
 “Sir, that was an honest mistake,” said Nuckles in the deposition. “I was just basing everything on what I normally do.” 
 
 The video shows the veteran calling for help six times before he goes unconscious while gasping for air. State records show nursing home staff found Dempsey unresponsive at 5:28 am. It took almost an hour for the staff to call 911 at 6:25a.m. 
 
 ANOTHER INVESTIGATION: Army veteran freezes to death after being released from VA hospital 
 
 When a different nurse does respond, she fails to check any of his vital signs. Nuckles says she would have reprimanded the nurse for the way she responded to Dempsey. She called the video “sick.” 
 
 When nurses had difficulty getting Dempsey's oxygen machine operational during, you can hear Nuckles and others laughing. 
 
 The nursing facility was made aware of the video in November 2015, but according to state inspection reports, the nursing home did not fire the nurses until 10 months later. 
 
 According to the Georgia Board of Nursing, Nuckles and another nurse seen in the video surrendered their licenses in September 2017 – about three years after the incident. 
 
 READ | Nursing assistant: We asked for more staff before WWII vet begged for help and died 
 
 After the indictment, warrants were issued for the arrest of Agyeman, Nuckles and Turman. Weeks ago, Brookhaven Police Brandon Gurley said 11Alive’s story was key to re-opening the investigation. 
 
 “It was very instrumental…because there was information in the news report that you guys aired that our detectives had not seen yet,” said Gurley. 
 
 The case will be prosecuted by the District Attorney’s Elder Abuse and Exploitation Unit. A trial date has not been set. 
 
 CHECK NURSING HOMES: Click here to see nursing home inspection reports 
 
 Do you have a story you want to tell? Contact 11Alive Investigator Andy Pierotti. ||||| The interactive transcript could not be loaded. 
 
 Rating is available when the video has been rented. 
 
 This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. ||||| An 11Alive investigation uncovered hidden camera video catching nursing home staff laughing while an elderly patient dies in front of them. The incident happened at the Northeast Atlanta Health and Rehabilitation in 2014, but the video was recently released as part of a lawsuit filed by the family. 
 
 Attorneys representing the Atlanta nursing home tried to prevent 11Alive from obtaining the video. They asked a DeKalb County judge to keep the video sealed and then attempted to appeal to the Georgia State Supreme Court. The judge ruled in favor of 11Alive and the nursing home eventually dropped its appeal to the state's highest court. 
 
 The video includes almost six hours of video court deposition from a nursing supervisor explaining how she responded to the patient before she knew the hidden camera video existed. The video shows a completely different response. 
 
 The deceased patient is 89-year-old James Dempsey, a decorated World War II veteran from Woodstock, Georgia. 
 
 In the video deposition, former nursing supervisor Wanda Nuckles tells the family's attorney, Mike Prieto, how she rushed to Dempsey's room when a nurse alerted her he had stopped breathing. 
 
 Sign up for the daily Speed Feed Newsletter Sign up for the daily Speed Feed Newsletter Something went wrong. This email will be delivered to your inbox once a day in the morning. Thank you for signing up for the Speed Feed Newsletter. Please try again later. 
 
 Submit 
 
 Prieto: “From the time you came in, you took over doing chest compressions…correct?” 
 
 Nuckles : “Yes.” 
 
 Prieto: “Until the time paramedics arrive, you were giving CPR continuously?” 
 
 Nuckles : “Yes.” 
 
 The video, however, shows no one doing CPR when Nuckles entered the room. She also did not immediately start doing CPR. 
 
 “Sir, that was an honest mistake,” said Nuckles in the deposition. “I was just basing everything on what I normally do.” 
 
 Watch the extended deposition here where her story changes after watching the hidden video. 
 
 The video shows the veteran calling for help six times before he goes unconscious while gasping for air. State records show nursing home staff found Dempsey unresponsive at 5:28 am. It took almost an hour for the staff to call 911 at 6:25a.m. 
 
 When a different nurse does respond, she fails to check any of his vital signs. Nuckles says she would have reprimanded the nurse for the way she responded to Dempsey. She called the video “sick.” 
 
 ►OTHER INVESTIGATIONS: Diagnosing Discrimination: Widespread discrimination uncovered at CDC 
 
 When nurses had difficulty getting Dempsey's oxygen machine operational during, you can hear Nuckles and others laughing. 
 
 Prieto: “Ma'am, was there something funny that was happening?” 
 
 Nuckles : “I can't even remember all that as you can see.” 
 
 (Story continues below photos) 
 
 PHOTOS: How a senior care facility failed Mr. Dempsey 
 
 11Alive showed the video to Elaine Harris, a retired nursing professor and expert in adult critical care. “In 43 years in nursing, I have never seen such disregard for human life in a healthcare setting, is what I witnessed,” said Harris. 
 
 Harris says she identified several violations of care in the video, including failure to respond, failure to assess and failure to act. 
 
 ►OTHER INVESTIGATIONS: Drug Whisperer: Drivers arrested while stone cold sober 
 
 In the video, nursing staff repeatedly start and stop doing CPR on Dempsey. Harris says once you start doing CPR, it should not be stopped until a doctor makes the decision not to resuscitate. 
 
 “That is absolutely inappropriate. You never stop compressions,” said Harris. 
 
 Dempsey's family declined to be interviewed due to a settlement agreement recently reached with the nursing home. 
 
 The nursing home operators, owned by Sava Senior Care, declined interview requests. In a prepared statement, a spokesperson wrote they were “saddened by the events, which occurred more than three years ago.” The letter also notes it has “new leadership and the leadership team and the staff have worked very diligently to improve quality care and the quality of life for our residents….The facility recently was deficiency-free during our recent annual inspection conducted by the Georgia Department of Health on May 25, 2017.” 
 
 ►OTHER INVESTIGATIONS: Selling Girls: Sex traffickers are targeting America's children 
 
 The nursing facility was made aware of the video in November 2015, but according to state inspection reports, the nursing home did not fire the nurses until 10 months later. 
 
 According to the Georgia Board of Nursing, Nuckles and another nurse seen in the video, surrendered their licenses in September – about three years after the incident. Nursing board president Janice Izlar says she cannot confirm when the state knew about the video, but the board's action came shortly after 11Alive sent her and other board staff a link to view the video. 
 
 On average, it currently takes the nursing board 427 days to fully investigate a nursing complaint. Izlar says that's an improvement from about 2,000 days. 
 
 “There is a lot of the process that we absolute do not have control over. For example, if we refer to a different division, a different agency, we have no absolutely no control over the timeline,” said Izlar. 
 
 ►OTHER INVESTIGATIONS: The Hunt: Atlanta's Hidden Serial Killers 
 
 ►AND: The Dumping Grounds: A trail of bodies hidden in plain sight 
 
 State health inspection records show Northeast Atlanta Health and Rehabilitation continued to have a history of problems after Dempsey's death. Medicare records show the nursing home facility was cited at least two dozen times for serious health and safety violations, including “immediate jeopardy” levels, the worst violation. Medicare withdrew one payment and the facility has been fined $813,113 since 2015. 
 
 While the facility recently received a good inspection this past May, it still has a one-star rating from Medicare, the lowest score the agency can give. The nursing facility remains open today. 
 
 CHECK NURSING HOMES: Click here to see nursing home inspection reports 
 
 Do you have a story you want to tell? Contact 11Alive Investigator Andy Pierotti. ||||| Multiple criminal charges, including murder, have been filed against the nurses linked to the death of 89-year-old World War II veteran James Dempsey. Loyce Pickquet Agyeman, a former licensed nurse practitioner, was indicted on Tuesday in Dekalb County, Georgia, for felony murder and neglect to an elder person, according to 11Alive. Wanda Nuckles, another former nurse practitioner, was charged with depriving an elder person of essential services, while nurse assistant Mable Turman faces a count of neglect to an elder person. The defendants each face a count of concealing the death of another. 
 
 If their names aren’t familiar to you, video of the incident should be. Footage showed nurses apparently ignoring his cries for help, then laughing as Dempsey continued to die. Law&Crime editor-in-chief Rachel Stockman first covered the incident in 2015 as a reporter for Atlanta’s WSB-TV. In that story, Dempsey’s family said they installed a nanny cam in his room at Northeast Atlanta Health and Rehabilitation in 2014. 
 
 They caught the patriarch’s final moments. As seen on footage, he repeatedly calls for help, only to largely be ignored. His family sued. Deposition video shows plaintiff attorney Mike Prieto pressing Nuckles, one of the nurses in the video. 
 
 At first, she testified that she did chest compressions until more help arrived, but the lawyer played the video. 
 
 “Contrary to the way you testified previously, there is no one doing CPR, is there,” he said. 
 
 “No,” Nuckles said. 
 
 Footage later showed apparent laughter in the room. 
 
 “Ma’am, was there something funny that was happening at 6:30:41 on February 21, 2014 in the middle of this attempt to resuscitate Mr. Dempsey?” Prieto said. 
 
 “I have no clue,” Nuckles said. “I can’t even remember all that, as you can see.” 
 
 Dempsey’s family reached a settlement with the nursing home. 
 
 [Screengrab via WSB-TV]