Source: Multi-News

As Democrats neared completion on a health care reform bill, Senate Republicans launched an offensive Wednesday to stall the debate, signaling their intent to use every procedural tool necessary to prevent passage before Christmas. 
 
 
 
 Senate Republicans forced the Senate clerk to read a 767-page amendment establishing a government-financed health care system, sponsored by Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) – but Sanders cut off the reading in the third hour by withdrawing his bill. 
 
 
 
 “We want to do what can to defeat the bill,” said Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Republican leadership. "We are going to do everything we can in terms of the rights we have to stop the bill from passing." 
 
 
 
 Sanders criticized Republicans for “trying to bring the United States government to a halt." 
 
 
 
 The GOP move appeared to be the opening shot in a Republican attempt to delay the bill past Christmas. And while Democrats were able to halt the reading by pulling Sanders’ amendment, they won’t be to do the same when Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) presents an amendment containing a compromise he hopes will win 60 votes. 
 
 
 
 Sanders offered the amendment and asked to dispense with the reading of it, which is almost always agreed to by unanimous consent. But Sen. Tom Coburn (R-Okla.) objected - it takes only one senator - forcing the reading. 
 
 
 
 Sanders called it a "bit absurd" that Coburn was objecting. And Coburn insisted he wasn't intentionally stalling the bill. "We're going to understand what single payer is all about and read the bill," he said. 
 
 
 
 Coburn’s move would have prevented senators from offering, debating or voting on any other amendments. While it might seem like the reading would set back efforts to finish the bill by Christmas, the timetable doesn't really depend on what happens on the floor. 
 
 
 
 It depends entirely on Reid's ability to reach a compromise on the bill that can pick up 60 votes to thwart any filibuster. 
 
 
 
 Before forcing the reading, Coburn asked to certify that every senator has read and understands the bill. But Sen. Max Baucus (D-Mont.) said it would be impossible for the Senate to certify that all its members understand the bill. 
 
 
 
 Sanders called it a "a stalling tactic on the part of Republicans." 
 
 
 
 "Sen. Coburn is so impressed by the Medicare-for-all, single-payer program that he apparently feels all the people of our country have to hear every single word for the next many, many hours about how the single payer program would be the only way to bring universal, comprehensive, cost-effective health care to all Americans," he said. " I really do appreciate his desire to make Americans know this. I think he may have overdone it a bit." 
 
 
 
 Reid has a tight timeline if he hopes to pass the bill by Christmas. 
 
 
 
 Under the rosiest scenario, he needs to begin taking the procedural steps by Friday to end the debate – and it would still take until Dec. 23 or 24 until the bill reaches final passage. This scenario depends on whether Reid receives a cost analysis from the Congressional Budget Office within the next day, which is not guaranteed. Undecided senators have said they need to review the analysis before committing their vote. 
 
 
 
 But as Wednesday’s event signified, Republicans do not intend to cooperate. They can also force a reading of the “manager’s amendment,” which will include the compromise that Reid struck in order to win 60 votes. It is likely to be a lengthy document, as well. 
 
 
 
 Thune would not say whether Republicans planned to force more readings. 
 
 
 
 “I do think we are aware of what those opportunities and options are for us,” he said. “And the goal here is to defeat this thing.” 
 
 
 
 Reid told reporters that the forced reading of the bill is having a side effect: it is slowing down the Senate’s efforts to get to a Pentagon spending bill. He said that Sanders was prepared to take a voice vote on the amendment, and also insisted that the bill would get out of the Senate this year. 
 
 
 
 “We’re going to finish this bill before we leave here, and everybody knows that, Democrats know it. I think the Republicans are beginning to realize I,” Reid said. “It’s just too bad that they are using these types of things, but I accept it, I’m not complaining, I just think it shows the American people how they’ve been stalling for all these months – now they’re holding up the defense bill as we’re waiting to get that from the House.” 
 
 
 
 -- Carrie Budoff Brown, Chris Frates and Manu Raju 
 
 comments closed 
 
 permalink ||||| Heeeeeeeere we go. Right now in the Senate chamber, GOP delay tactics on the Democratic health care reform bill are in full swing. The Senate clerk is reading out aloud the text of an amendment by Sen. Bernie Sanders that would insert a single-payer system into the health care bill. The process of verbally entering amendments into the official record is typically waived, but a senator – in this case Republican Sen. Tom Coburn – can force it to happen. The Sanders amendment is particularly long at 767 pages. I think it might actually be the longest amendment offered so far, making it a prime target for Republicans looking for a way to slow down Democratic process on the health care bill. 
 
 That Coburn is using the rules of the Senate against the Democrats should come as no surprise. As Mark Leibovich reported in the New York Times in October: 
 
 As the health care overhaul heads to the Senate floor, Mr. Coburn is preparing for what he considers a career pinnacle of havoc. Enacting the proposal, he says, would be catastrophic, and so if precedent holds, he will try to hinder it with every annoying tool in his arsenal: filing amendments (he has done that 508 times since joining the Senate, second only to John McCain’s 542 in that period), undertaking filibusters and objecting strenuously. “When it comes to obstructing bills, he is part of a very tiny pantheon in the history of the Senate,” said Ross Baker, a Senate historian at Rutgers University. To Mr. Coburn, charges of obstructionism are a mark of honor he will wear as proudly as ever in the coming weeks. “My mission is to frame this health care debate in terms of the fiscal ruin of this country,” said the 61-year-old Mr. Coburn, who recently railed on the Senate floor that the federal debt was “waterboarding” his five grandchildren. “I have instructed my staff to clear my schedule for every minute that bill is on the floor.” 
 
 The Sanders single payer provision is a “message amendment” that has no chance of passing, but it’s what some left-wingers consider ideal health care reform, which also makes it an ideal target for GOP obstructionism. The clerk started reading the amendment at 12 p.m. EST and is now on page 40. Guesses on when the Senate might get back to regular business?