Source: Multi-News

NEW YORK (AP) — Target shoppers found out this weekend that when stores make deals to carry merchandise from high-end designers for a limited time, it can be, well, really limiting. 
 
 The discounter partnered with the Lilly Pulitzer brand to carry a collection of 250 pieces for a fraction of the price of the Palm Beach designer's original merchandise. But the offer, which included $38 pink shift dresses and $25 beach towels, was wrought with long lines in stores, quick sellouts online and other problems. 
 
 It shows the challenges stores face when they offer limited-time collections. These lines typically consist of cheaper versions of designer pieces and are sold for a short period of time. They generate buzz from aspirational buyers who want to don upscale brands as well as avid wearers of the labels themselves. But the high demand can be a double-edged sword: Often, customers encounter picked-over merchandise and website snafus. 
 
 Target, which pioneered these partnerships in the 1990s and has been followed by rivals like H&M, Gap and Kohl's, started selling the Lilly Pulitzer collection on Sunday online at about 4 a.m. EST and at stores at 8 a.m. EST. Demand was so heavy that Target took the site offline for 20 minutes, which caused angry chatter on social media. Ultimately, the items sold out online within a few hours and at many of the 1,800 stores within a half hour. 
 
 Target apologized for the online snafu, noting an "inconsistent experience for our guests." And spokesman Joshua Thomas said pieces could still be found at stores. 
 
 "We felt good about the amount of product, but you just don't know until you give customers a chance to shop," Thomas said. 
 
 Despite the issues, many experts say Target's Lilly Pulitzer collection was a success. "I think this was a huge success not only because Target sold out but because everyone was talking about them," said Marshal Cohen, chief industry analyst at market researcher NPD Group. 
 
 Here are three challenges retailers face with limited-time partnerships: 
 
 HARD TO PREDICT DEMAND 
 
 Stores and analysts say it's hard to gauge what shoppers will actually buy since those items haven't ever been sold before. 
 
 There was lot of buzz leading up to Target's launch of its limited-time partnership with Neiman Marcus in 2012. Target increased production in anticipation of a sales blowout, but Target shoppers thought the line was too expensive, while well-heeled Neiman Marcus customers didn't think it was high quality. Several weeks later, prices were slashed more than 50 percent. 
 
 SOCIAL MEDIA CAN HURT 
 
 Shoppers are increasingly turning to social media to air their complaints. 
 
 Target drummed up so much hype around its collection with upscale Italian designer Missoni in 2011 that its web site crashed and was shut down for most of the day of the launch. Shoppers voiced frustrations online and then threatened to boycott Target weeks later on social media because their online orders were being delayed and canceled. 
 
 "Social media is like a megaphone," said Craig Johnson, a retail consultant. 
 
 AFTER MARKET SELLERS 
 
 Some shoppers use these partnerships to profit by selling the stuff on eBay. 
 
 For instance, there were sold-out Lilly Pulitzer items selling for at least three times Target's original prices on eBay. That frustrates shoppers who want to buy items just for themselves. "I think it's sad that it can't be a fun experience," said Meredith Forbes, 21, who was at Target's East Harlem, New York, store Sunday. 
 
 Target's Thomas said just 1.5 percent of the total Lilly Pulitzer for Target collection was on eBay. 
 
 _____ 
 
 Follow Anne D'Innocenzio at http://www.Twitter.com/adinnocenzio ||||| The preppy clothes made by Lilly Pulitzer are infantilizing and unflattering, says Post fashion critic Robin Givhan, but maybe that's part of their charm. (Tom LeGro/The Washington Post) 
 
 The debut of the Lilly Pulitzer collection for Target was a spectacular feat of retailing that had very little to do with the quality of the fashion that the mass marketer was selling. Lilly Pulitzer is not fashion. It is clothes. The classic Lilly Pulitzer dress comes in shrill shades of yellow and pink that are vaguely infantilizing. They are clothes that can be shrunk down and worn by 7-year-old girls without changing a single design element — if there were actual design elements to change. But there are not. 
 
 Lilly Pulitzer is preppy. It is part of a preppy uniform that announces itself from fifty paces. It is not so much a declaration of wealth as it is a perceived statement about class, lineage and attitude. Anyone can work hard and save up enough cash to go out and purchase a Chanel suit or a Gucci handbag. A devoted student of Vogue can cobble together a personal style that speaks to its public identity. But Lilly Pulitzer suggests an advantage of birth. The clothes stir up scrapbook notions of ancient family trees, summer compounds, boarding school uniforms, and large, granite buildings inscribed with some great-great-grandfather’s name. Lilly Pulitzer represents something that money cannot buy. 
 
 
 
 “Lilly Pulitzer is not fashion. It is clothes.” (Neilson Barnard/Getty Images for Target) 
 
 The clothes are, upon close inspection, not so terribly attractive. Actually, they are rather unattractive. And that is part of their charm. They are not meant to be stylish — that’s so nouveau. The clothes are clubby. Country clubby. One-percent-ish. 
 
 Target created a feeding frenzy of shoppers lured by cheap versions of A-line sheaths that are mostly distinguished by their swirling, colorful prints rather than by silhouette, fabric, craftsmanship or creativity. The massive lines, crashing Web sites and lust-filled tweets under #LillyForTarget are less proof of shoppers’ discerning taste than evidence that folks love a whiff of leisure-class exclusivity, a brand name and a bargain — however that might be defined. 
 
 Target has a long history of these limited-edition collections, which have included such rarefied fashion names as Jason Wu, Altuzarra, Rodarte and Missoni. These collections whipped customers into a near-fugue state of consumption because the merchandise was limited and buyers could get a smidge of the design house’s distinctive sensibility for a significant discount. A Rodarte dress normally costs a customer anywhere from $3,000 on up. But most everything in the Target collection was less than $100. The Missoni collection at Target included housewares bearing the Italian brand’s distinctive and colorful zigzag pattern. A high-end Missoni pillow costs about $300. Target was selling them for about a tenth of that price. Those are jaw-dropping deals. And it was good-looking merchandise, too. 
 
 
 
 In this March 16, 1965 photo, fashion designer Lilly Pulitzer wears her own design and creation of the Lilly shift, in Palm Beach, Fla. Pulitzer, known for her tropical print dresses, died in Florida at 81. (Robert H. Houston/AP) 
 
 But Lilly Pulitzer isn’t that kind of designer collection. The brand was founded in 1959 by the label’s namesake — a bored, rich housewife who had started an orange juice stand in Palm Beach. One day, she brought along several simple chemise dresses — which had been constructed by her dressmaker from fabric that Pulitzer had purchased at Woolworth. The dresses were a hit, and the easy, but constructed shape, helped define the style of a generation of women in the 1960s. The clothes were perky and chaste and bore an aristocratic name. 
 
 “There is, however, always a big difference between the uncomplicated Diane von Furstenberg wrap dress, the Halston Ultrasuede shirtwaist or other icons of style, and all the competition. Pulitzer invented nothing; she is hardly a designer,” wrote the late fashion historian Richard Martin in his compendium on American fashion. Pulitzer died in 2013. 
 
 [Lilly Pulitzer’s fashion line for Target debuted Sunday — and basically sold out Sunday] 
 
 Today, a simple Lilly Pulitzer dress is about $200. A Target version is about $40. That’s a bargain, for sure, but not that exceptional. One might expect to find nearly as good a deal by waiting for a sale at Neiman Marcus. Time, after all, is not of the essence. Lilly Pulitzer is classic. It is always hanging on a rack somewhere, everywhere, in all of its pineapple-print, feel-good, preppy psychedelia. 
 
 But who has time to pull out a calculator and get involved in fractions when pink dresses are flying off the racks — virtual and real — and shoppers are overwhelmed by the fear of missing out? It must be a good deal if everyone is going this bonkers, right? 
 
 Discerning eyes go blurry at the prospect of a bargain. And as much as people pooh-pooh the allure of designer this-and-that, shoppers continue to find validation from the name on the label inside their clothes. Sometimes that label rightfully stands for quality — a confirmation that a purse is hand-made or a dress has been stitched just so. But in the case of Lilly Pulitzer for Target, the label isn’t a promise of enduring quality, unique style or specialized fit. 
 
 The chest-thumping is about having gotten something that others missed out on, something that was ephemeral. Target distinguished itself once again as a retailing dynamo. But what it was selling this time had nothing to do with fashion.