Source: Multi-News

By now you've probably heard about a lunatic with a small airplane named Joe Stack who crashed his plane into an IRS building Austin, Texas in an attempt to get back at the man-or "Big Brother" as he so eloquently stated on his website. 
 
 I'm not about to blame Joe Stack's kamikaze mission on Rush Limbaugh, Sarah Palin, or the Tea Baggers like some on the left. That is irresponsible and reprehensible. Anybody who would blame Stack's suicide mission on Limbaugh, Palin, or the GOP, is purely agenda-driven and not looking at the facts. 
 
 Joseph Andrew Stack (gotta love how the media always includes the middle name) was a middle-aged man who tired of the political system and felt like yet another little guy that was neglected by Uncle Sam. 
 
 His rantings are the words of a lunatic. I won't call him "right-wing" or "left-wing" and will just say this guy was nuts. 
 
 "We are all taught as children that without laws there would be no society, only anarchy. Sadly, starting at early ages we in this country have been brainwashed to believe that, in return for our dedication and service, our government stands for justice for all. We are further brainwashed to believe that there is freedom in this place, and that we should be ready to lay our lives down for the noble principals represented by its founding fathers." 
 
 This type of rant reminds me of something you'd hear from a Lynden LaRouche supporter or someone who speaks of the Illuminati. 
 
 I certainly wouldn't call this guy a religious extremist. He ranted about the Catholic church in his manifesto as well. 
 
 "My introduction to the real American nightmare starts back in the early ‘80s. Unfortunately after more than 16 years of school, somewhere along the line I picked up the absurd, pompous notion that I could read and understand plain English. Some friends introduced me to a group of people who were having ‘tax code’ readings and discussions. In particular, zeroed in on a section relating to the wonderful “exemptions” that make institutions like the vulgar, corrupt Catholic Church so incredibly wealthy." 
 
 People who knew the Joe Stack say he showed no signs of snapping-the mark of someone who goes insane. He talked politics, but not like that guy we all have met or know who we suspect will possibly go postal or shoot up a shopping mall. 
 
 There's an old saying that a sucker is born every minute. These days it seems like a lunatic is born every minute. My, my how things have changed in America. And, that is very frightening. 
 
 For a link to Joe Stack's manifesto, check out this site. ||||| Alienated in Austin 
 
 Joseph Stack was angry at the Internal Revenue Service, and he took his rage out on it by slamming his single-engine plane into the Echelon Building in Austin, Texas. We now know this thanks to the rather clear (as rants go) suicide note Stack left behind. There's no information yet on whether he was involved in any anti-government groups or whether he was a lone wolf. But after reading his 34-paragraph screed, I am struck by how his alienation is similar to that we're hearing from the extreme elements of the Tea Party movement. 
 
 Here are excerpts I was able to snag before the FBI took Stark's site down: 
 
 
 
 
 
 If you’re reading this, you’re no doubt asking yourself, “Why did this have to happen?” 
 
 We are all taught as children that without laws there would be no society, only anarchy. Sadly, starting at early ages we in this country have been brainwashed to believe that, in return for our dedication and service, our government stands for justice for all. We are further brainwashed to believe that there is freedom in this place, and that we should be ready to lay our lives down for the noble principals represented by its founding fathers. 
 
 Why is it that a handful of thugs and plunderers can commit unthinkable atrocities (and in the case of the GM executives, for scores of years) and when it’s time for their gravy train to crash under the weight of their gluttony and overwhelming stupidity, the force of the full federal government has no difficulty coming to their aid within days if not hours? 
 
 In a government full of hypocrites from top to bottom, life is as cheap as their lies and their self-serving laws. 
 
 I know I’m hardly the first one to decide I have had all I can stand. It has always been a myth that people have stopped dying for their freedom in this country, and it isn’t limited to the blacks, and poor immigrants. I know there have been countless before me and there are sure to be as many after. But I also know that by not adding my body to the count, I insure nothing will change. I choose to not keep looking over my shoulder at “big brother” while he strips my carcass, I choose not to ignore what is going on all around me, I choose not to pretend that business as usual won’t continue; I have just had enough. 
 
 Sadly, though I spent my entire life trying to believe it wasn’t so, but violence not only is the answer, it is the only answer. 
 
 I saw it written once that the definition of insanity is repeating the same process over and over and expecting the outcome to suddenly be different. I am finally ready to stop this insanity. Well, Mr. Big Brother IRS man, let’s try something different; take my pound of flesh and sleep well. 
 
 Joe Stack (1956-2010) 
 
 02/18/2010 
 
 My Facebook and Twitter buddy Steve Beste made a wry observation about Stack's last stand. "If a white Texas guy flies into a government building it is a contained criminal act," he Tweeted. "Oh. OK. McVeigh was disgruntled." McVeigh was more than disgruntled. He was murderous. And the alienation he felt from his government in 1995 still affects more than we care to admit 15 years later.