Source: Multi-News

Meet 18-Year-Old Cole Carman, One of the First Transgender Teens to Freeze Eggs Before Transitioning 
 
 Related Video: Transgender Teen Gets Her Own Reality Show 
 
 Courtesy Cole Carman 
 
 An 18-year-old from northern California has become one of the first transgender teenagers to freeze his eggs so he can have biological children later in life, his doctor says.Cole Carman, formerly known as Nicole, has undergone a double mastectomy and was about to start testosterone treatment in January when his doctor asked if he wanted to freeze his eggs first."[After] they told me that, I didn't [start testosterone treatment] and I did some research on the egg retrieving process," Carman told PEOPLE. "I already knew I wanted kids, so to say yes and make that decision was a no-brainer."The teen, who hails from the San Francisco area, had first started looking into transgender issues when he was 12, but didn't really understand what it meant to be transgender. He came to a better understanding of the definition last year."From there I had to just make sure I came to terms with myself and who I am before making a big decision like [undergoing surgery]," he said.Carman's parents' have been supporting him throughout the process of transitioning."I didn't really hesitate at all simply because Cole has always been mature in his thinking and I knew this was something that was really important to him," his mother C.J. Carman tells PEOPLE.C.J. said she and husband Pat were receptive to the idea of Cole freezing his eggs because she struggled to conceive – leading them to adopt Cole. "I wanted to make sure it was done before it couldn't be done," she said.Dr. Aimee Eyvazzadeh, the doctor who performed the procedure on Carman at the end of May, says he is one of the first transgender teens to do this prior to transitioning."The concept of freezing eggs is not new for the transgender community, what I would say is typically you're seeing probably trans-males in their 30s who are trying to come off their testosterone and trying to freeze eggs," she commented. "This is an unusual [case] and probably one of the first, if not the first, for a teenager."His parents funded the entire procedure, which cost about $13,000. Carman advises other teens in his situation to think very carefully about how personally important it is to have biological children."It's a lot of money and there are other ways," he said. "You should think, how important would it be that your child is related to you? That would be the biggest factor to play in into making the decision."Eyvazzadeh said that Carman's procedure went very smoothly. "From the minute I met them, I wanted to help. I could tell that he was mature, he knew exactly what he wanted and this was self-directed," she said."It's a journey and an emotional roller coaster ride," C.J. said. "But I think it's really important for parents to understand that [the surgeries] aren't something that's a choice, they're a necessity. Love your child, be open minded and get information." ||||| Cole Carman, 18, became the first transgender teen to have a surgical procedure that will give him the opportunity to have a genetic link to the kids he knows he wants one day. (Photo: Cole Carman) 
 
 When 18-year-old Cole Carman made the decision to transition from female to male late last year, the San Francisco-area teen knew that he would be in for major surgery and hormone therapy. 
 
 STORY: Transgender 9-Year-Old Adapts to School Life as a Boy 
 
 That didn’t stop Carman, a recent high school grad set to start college in the fall, from signing on for another potentially risky medical procedure: egg retrieval. It’s a fairly routine (yet still major) surgery, typically undertaken by egg donors and some women undergoing in-vitro fertilization. 
 
 STORY: How I Told My Son His Friends Are Transgender 
 
 
 
 But Carman may be the first transgender teen to have his eggs successfully harvested before transitioning — preserving his ability to have children that he’ll be biologically related to, whether he chooses to carry a child himself or turn to a surrogate. “I’ve always known I wanted to have kids of my own, so when my endocrinologist talked to me about it, it was a no-brainer,” Carman told Yahoo Parenting. 
 
 The surgery, which was done at the end of May, wasn’t so simple. It required 10 days of hormone shots, and it left him dealing with side effects like bloating and cramping. During the procedure, a doctor used a needle to harvest as many egg follicles as possible, freezing them so they can be thawed and fertilized at some point in the future. 
 
 What makes Carman’s situation so groundbreaking is that up until recently, doctors didn’t routinely talk about fertility preservation to transgender teens or adults who were planning to transition. 
 
 “Some transgender people who realized after gender reassignment surgery that they wanted kids of their own had no chance, because they already had their reproductive organs removed,” Dr. Aimee Eyvazzadeh, a fertility specialist in San Ramon, Calif., told Yahoo Parenting. 
 
 “Others who didn’t have ‘bottom’ [sex-reassignment] surgery still had difficulty, because after years of testosterone therapy, their ovaries would shut down and would not reawaken to create any viable eggs, or the eggs would be low quality,” she said. 
 
 Because Carman was so certain fatherhood was in his future, he researched the procedure, talked to his doctors and parents about it, and finally decided to go ahead. 
 
 Carman’s parents, who adopted their only child when he was five-and-a-half weeks old, couldn’t be more supportive. “When we realized this was an option, we went for it,” C.J. Carman, Cole’s mother, told Yahoo Parenting. 
 
 She says she and her husband were as supportive when Cole told them that he was transgender last November — something he began to realize when he was a young teen. 
 
 “The decision to do egg retrieval shows how forward-thinking and mature Cole is, because it’s not something you do on a whim,” says Eyvazzadeh. To help with the cost of storing the frozen eggs, she launched a fundraising page for Cole with the goal of raising $3,000, the fee for one year of storage. 
 
 With egg retrieval behind him, Cole underwent “top” surgery in June, a procedure that involves the removal of breast tissue. He’s begun testosterone therapy as well, and he’s already filed the papers to officially change his gender and his first name from Nicole to Coley. “The paperwork will be finalized in September,” he said. 
 
 As for the eggs that he put on ice, Cole has no immediate plans to thaw them and become a dad. He’ll be a first-year student at California State University at Sacramento in the fall, and plans to major in kinesiology. Fatherhood is a way’s off, he says, “like in eight or 10 years.” Whatever he decides, Cole at least has the option of someday having kids he’s genetically linked to. 
 
 Please follow @YahooParenting on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Pinterest. Have an interesting story to share about your family? Email us at YParenting (at) Yahoo.com.