Source: Multi-News

IFAW via Reuters Two dolphins are prepared for release Monday into Cape Cod Bay. 
 
 BOSTON -- Nineteen dolphins that stranded themselves along Cape Cod have been treated and released, but several dozen others have perished since the string of strandings began last Thursday. 
 
 Eight that stranded alive did not survive, said Katie Moore, manager for marine mammal rescue at the International Fund for Animal Welfare, while another 32 washed ashore already dead. 
 
 Of the 19 survivors, one was a calf and another a pregnant mom. 
 
 Strandings typically happen from January to April, but the pattern this year is unlike past years, when just one dolphin or a group would be found on a single beach, she said. 
 
 "I've been doing this for 15 years and this is only the second season I've seen it like this," she said. 
 
 Julia Cumes / AP A dolphin is given a hearing test before being released back into Cape Cod Bay at Scusset Beach on Saturday. 
 
 "It feels like stranding after stranding after stranding," Moore added. "It's definitely out of the ordinary." 
 
 The dolphins began beaching themselves on Thursday, with a single dolphin stranded near the town of Wellfleet, said IFAW spokeswoman Kerry Branon. 
 
 On Saturday, the busiest day for rescuers, at least 37 dolphin were found spanning five towns along 20 miles of Cape Cod, Branon said. 
 
 Cape Cod is among the top locations for the phenomenon worldwide, she said. Beaching of dolphins has been happening for centuries, but researchers are still trying to determine what brings the dolphins to Cape Cod Bay this time of year. 
 
 The group actions tend to happen, in part, because dolphins operate with a group mentality, where many others may follow one animal toward shallow water, IFAW said. 
 
 The animals, which tend to get stuck on the bay side of the hook-shaped Cape Cod, are assessed by rescuers and then taken to deeper water on the ocean side and released. 
 
 Marine biologists check for signs of stress and body condition, among other factors, and tag the dolphins with an identifier before release. 
 
 A handful of animals have also been affixed with a tag to track movement and transmit data to researchers, Branon said. 
 
 "We also were able to test the hearing on one animal as well ... important data for our project which will hopefully aid in conservation measures to protect marine mammals from ocean noise," Moore said in a statement. 
 
 Moore said this year's series of dolphins stranded on beaches reminded her of the 2005-2006 winter, when dolphins beached themselves over a 40-day period. 
 
 Reuters contributed to this report. 
 
 More content from msnbc.com and NBC News ||||| Worries about Cape dolphin strandings 
 
 PROVINCETOWN — Marine mammal experts predict the mass stranding of common dolphins along the Cape Cod Bay coastline could continue for many days, given new sightings Monday. 
 
 In Provincetown Harbor on Monday, rescuers kept a close eye on 75 common dolphins that were acting erratically and appeared close to stranding, Scott Landry of the Provincetown Center for Coastal Studies said. 
 
 The center's aerial survey team, in flight on Monday to count North Atlantic right whales, counted at least 300 dolphins in Cape Cod Bay, including those in the harbor, Landry said. 
 
 In the past five days, about 40 to 50 dolphins have been reported stranded over 25 miles of coastline from Dennis to Wellfleet, said Katie Moore, marine mammal rescue director for the International Fund for Animal Welfare in Yarmouthport. 
 
 Of those, 27 have been found alive and 19 have been released in local waters. Six dolphins that stranded on Wellfleet beaches on Monday were released at Herring Cove Beach in Provincetown, Moore said. 
 
 The common dolphin typically makes its home in waters deeper than Cape Cod Bay and farther from the shoreline. The ones in the area now may be attempting to head south but have gotten caught in the bay, Landry said. 
 
 The 75 dolphins in Provincetown Harbor appeared to have righted themselves and headed out to safer waters, Landry said Monday evening. 
 
 "We don't think this is over," he said. "It seems pretty likely that this stranding is going to be protracted unless something radical changes." 
 
 The coastal studies center works under the direction of the Yarmouthport animal welfare organizations to respond to the strandings, Landry said. 
 
 Dolphin strandings have occurred for hundreds of years, Moore said. The exact cause is not known but may relate to dolphins' tendency to follow one another, she said, and if the leader becomes disoriented or ill, the dolphins can run aground. 
 
 The last mass stranding on Cape Cod, when there was more than a month of activity, occurred in the winter of 2005 and 2006, Moore said. 
 
 "I'm hoping this doesn't last quite as long," she said. 
 
 Officials urge folks to call their 24-hour hotline at 508-743-9548 to report any strandings of marine mammals. 
 
 Reader Reaction We reserve the right to remove any content at any time from this Community, including without limitation if it violates the Community Rules . We ask that you report content that you in good faith believe violates the above rules by clicking the Flag link next to the offending comment. New comments are only accepted for two weeks from the date of publication.