Source: Multi-News

August 20, 2011 
 
 Toronto, Ontario 
 
 Dear Friends, 
 
 Tens of thousands of Canadians have written to me in recent weeks to wish me well. I want to thank each and every one of you for your thoughtful, inspiring and often beautiful notes, cards and gifts. Your spirit and love have lit up my home, my spirit, and my determination. 
 
 Unfortunately my treatment has not worked out as I hoped. So I am giving this letter to my partner Olivia to share with you in the circumstance in which I cannot continue. 
 
 I recommend that Hull-Aylmer MP Nycole Turmel continue her work as our interim leader until a permanent successor is elected. 
 
 I recommend the party hold a leadership vote as early as possible in the New Year, on approximately the same timelines as in 2003, so that our new leader has ample time to reconsolidate our team, renew our party and our program, and move forward towards the next election. 
 
 A few additional thoughts: 
 
 To other Canadians who are on journeys to defeat cancer and to live their lives, I say this: please don’t be discouraged that my own journey hasn’t gone as well as I had hoped. You must not lose your own hope. Treatments and therapies have never been better in the face of this disease. You have every reason to be optimistic, determined, and focused on the future. My only other advice is to cherish every moment with those you love at every stage of your journey, as I have done this summer. 
 
 To the members of my party: we’ve done remarkable things together in the past eight years. It has been a privilege to lead the New Democratic Party and I am most grateful for your confidence, your support, and the endless hours of volunteer commitment you have devoted to our cause. There will be those who will try to persuade you to give up our cause. But that cause is much bigger than any one leader. Answer them by recommitting with energy and determination to our work. Remember our proud history of social justice, universal health care, public pensions and making sure no one is left behind. Let’s continue to move forward. Let’s demonstrate in everything we do in the four years before us that we are ready to serve our beloved Canada as its next government. 
 
 To the members of our parliamentary caucus: I have been privileged to work with each and every one of you. Our caucus meetings were always the highlight of my week. It has been my role to ask a great deal from you. And now I am going to do so again. Canadians will be closely watching you in the months to come. Colleagues, I know you will make the tens of thousands of members of our party proud of you by demonstrating the same seamless teamwork and solidarity that has earned us the confidence of millions of Canadians in the recent election. 
 
 To my fellow Quebecers: On May 2nd, you made an historic decision. You decided that the way to replace Canada’s Conservative federal government with something better was by working together in partnership with progressive-minded Canadians across the country. You made the right decision then; it is still the right decision today; and it will be the right decision right through to the next election, when we will succeed, together. You have elected a superb team of New Democrats to Parliament. They are going to be doing remarkable things in the years to come to make this country better for us all. 
 
 To young Canadians: All my life I have worked to make things better. Hope and optimism have defined my political career, and I continue to be hopeful and optimistic about Canada. Young people have been a great source of inspiration for me. I have met and talked with so many of you about your dreams, your frustrations, and your ideas for change. More and more, you are engaging in politics because you want to change things for the better. Many of you have placed your trust in our party. As my time in political life draws to a close I want to share with you my belief in your power to change this country and this world. There are great challenges before you, from the overwhelming nature of climate change to the unfairness of an economy that excludes so many from our collective wealth, and the changes necessary to build a more inclusive and generous Canada. I believe in you. Your energy, your vision, your passion for justice are exactly what this country needs today. You need to be at the heart of our economy, our political life, and our plans for the present and the future. 
 
 And finally, to all Canadians: Canada is a great country, one of the hopes of the world. We can be a better one – a country of greater equality, justice, and opportunity. We can build a prosperous economy and a society that shares its benefits more fairly. We can look after our seniors. We can offer better futures for our children. We can do our part to save the world’s environment. We can restore our good name in the world. We can do all of these things because we finally have a party system at the national level where there are real choices; where your vote matters; where working for change can actually bring about change. In the months and years to come, New Democrats will put a compelling new alternative to you. My colleagues in our party are an impressive, committed team. Give them a careful hearing; consider the alternatives; and consider that we can be a better, fairer, more equal country by working together. Don’t let them tell you it can’t be done. 
 
 My friends, love is better than anger. Hope is better than fear. Optimism is better than despair. So let us be loving, hopeful and optimistic. And we’ll change the world. 
 
 All my very best, 
 
 Jack Layton ||||| Family, friends and colleagues are remembering NDP Leader Jack Layton as news starts to sink in that the politician known for his warmth and personality has died. 
 
 Friends and political foes alike praised Layton on Monday for his warmth, optimism and respect for opponents. 
 
 People who squared off politically against Layton, including former prime ministers Jean Chrétien and Paul Martin, as well as Prime Minister Stephen Harper and interim Liberal Leader Bob Rae, all spoke warmly about the NDP leader's commitment to Canadians. 
 
 Layton, who led Canada's Official Opposition, died early Monday morning at his Toronto home after a battle with cancer. He was 61. 
 
 Layton's wife, Olivia Chow, and his children, Sarah and Michael Layton, issued a statement announcing his death. 
 
 "We deeply regret to inform you that the Honourable Jack Layton, leader of the New Democratic Party of Canada, passed away at 4:45 am today, Monday August 22. He passed away peacefully at his home surrounded by family and loved ones," the statement read. 
 
 State funeral Saturday 
 
 Layton will be honoured with a state funeral Saturday in Toronto, senior NDP officials have told CBC News. 
 
 The government protocol office is working with the NDP and family of the NDP leader on exactly what the funeral will be. 
 
 Condolence books will be set up in Ottawa on Parliament Hill and in Toronto at city hall. Others will be located in NDP constituency offices across the country. 
 
 On Monday, mourners, many bearing flowers and other tributes, arrived at Layton's Toronto constituency office. Friends and areas residents also arrived at his home on the quiet side street where he lived with Chow. 
 
 Social media was used to quickly organize public tributes, including gatherings on Parliament Hill, and a rally in Toronto. Later Monday evening, several hundred people came together for a vigil outside the Vancouver Art Gallery. 
 
 On Monday evening, hundreds of people were near the Centennial Flame at Parliament Hill, many leaving flowers, cans of Orange Crush that symbolize the NDP's official colour, and notes. The crowd, many bearing candles, sang O Canada as the sun set. 
 
 The family released a letter from Layton to Canadians just after noon. 
 
 Layton had been battling new cancer 
 
 Layton's death comes less than a month after he announced to the country that he was fighting a new form of cancer and was taking time off for treatment. Layton had been diagnosed with prostate cancer in late 2009 and underwent treatment for it. He continued working throughout that time and also battled a broken hip earlier this year. Layton used a cane for much of his time on the campaign trail this spring as he led the NDP to a historic victory on May 2. 
 
 His party claimed 103 seats, and was propelled to official Opposition status. Layton and his party were getting used to their new roles in Parliament but he did not appear to be in good health near the end of June. He said he felt pain and stiffness, he underwent tests and they confirmed he had a new form of cancer. He did not disclose what kind of cancer. 
 
 Layton's chief of staff, Anne McGrath, said Monday that Layton's condition took a quick turn for the worse Sunday night. 
 
 She spent a few hours with him Saturday and had a sense that he was losing a battle, but says his campaign slogan – don't let them tell you it can't be done – was also a personal slogan. 
 
 "It is a huge loss. It is a huge loss for me personally, but it's a huge loss also for our party and our country," she said. 
 
 McGrath worked with Layton for nearly a decade. 
 
 "There's no question that my heart is broken," she said. 
 
 McGrath said Layton was thinking about what it would mean for the party if he died. When they spoke on Saturday, they talked about upcoming events like the party's annual caucus retreat in September and what Parliament would be like if he weren't there. 
 
 Layton always liked to be presented with options, McGrath told Evan Solomon on CBC's Power & Politics, including a plan for what would happen if he died. 
 
 "He was very, very practical and he was very much wanting to know that we were going to be able to continue and we were going to be strong," she said. 
 
 After the news of Layton's death emerged shortly after 8 a.m. ET, friends, colleagues and Canadians reacted quickly and with shock, sadness and tears. The flag on the Peace Tower was lowered to half-mast. 
 
 Harper saddened by news 
 
 Layton's last letter "My friends, love is better than anger. Hope is better than fear. Optimism is better than despair. So let us be loving, hopeful and optimistic. And we'll change the world," Jack Layton writes just days before his death. Read more 
 
 Prime Minister Stephen Harper said Layton will be remembered for the force of his personality and his dedication to public life. 
 
 Speaking from the foyer of the House of Commons, Harper said the two leaders had always talked about getting together to jam. 
 
 "I will always regret the jam session that never was. That is a reminder, I think, that we must always make time for friends, family and loved ones, while we still can," he said. 
 
 In a statement earlier Monday, Harper saluted Layton's contribution to public life and said it would be sorely missed. 
 
 "I know one thing: Jack gave his fight against cancer everything he had. Indeed, Jack never backed down from any fight," he said. 
 
 Tributes to Layton poured in from across party lines. Rae said the news took his breath away and that Layton's death is not just a loss for the NDP, but for all Canadians. 
 
 "It's a loss for the country because he was a political guy who believed strongly in politics and who had a lot of resilience and a lot of guts," Rae told CBC News. 
 
 NDP colleagues shocked 
 
 Longtime NDP leader and MP Ed Broadbent told CBC News he sensed the end was coming, but was still shocked when he got the call Monday morning. 
 
 "In each and every election, he moved us forward ... he wanted a reason in politics," Broadbent said. 
 
 "Canada has lost a great politician. A man who believed in working for the public good. And I've lost a personal friend." 
 
 Interim NDP Leader Nycole Turmel spoke of one of Layton's favourite quotes from Tommy Douglas, the founder of the CCF, the NDP's forerunner. Layton included the quote in every email he sent: “Courage my friends, ‘tis never too late to build a better world.” 
 
 "Jack was a courageous man. It was his leadership that inspired me, and so many others, to run for office," Turmel said in her statement. 
 
 "We – members of Parliament, New Democrats and Canadians – need to pull together now and carry on his fight to make this country a better place." 
 
 NDP deputy leader Libby Davies, fighting back tears, said Layton's death is "an incredible loss." 
 
 "Jack was not only a great leader of the NDP, he's someone that Canadians across the country came to love. We feel a tremendous sense of loss and grief," she said. 
 
 Davies said Layton brought a sense of humanity to Canadian politics and in his career and his life, especially his battle with cancer, "he gave it his all." 
 
 "We have only love and respect for everything that he did and he leaves some really important legacies in Canadian politics," she said. 
 
 The NDP appointed Turmel to take over for Layton temporarily. Layton wanted to be back at work in time for Parliament's fall session in mid-September. 
 
 Jack Layton, speaking at the NDP's 50th anniversary convention in June, led his party past the Liberals to become the Official Opposition during the spring election. Darryl Dyck/Canadian Press Douglas' daughter, Shirley, says Layton was the same whether he was in a crowded room or meeting people one-on-one. 
 
 "Everywhere I've gone, people said 'You know, we've got a leader who cared'," she told CBC News. 
 
 Douglas says she's worried about Chow. 
 
 "That's the one person I keep thinking about all morning," she said. "They were so close and when a marriage that is as close as that one ... it's a terrible thing to see that marriage broken apart by this. I just couldn't say enough to her. She's a tremendous woman on her own." 
 
 The leader of the Official Opposition announced on July 25 he was stepping away from the job to concentrate on his cancer treatment. He told Canadians he had recently been diagnosed with a new form of cancer, in addition to the prostate cancer he had earlier battled.