Source: Multi-News

Croatia swastika: Hosts apologise for Nazi pitch symbol 
 
 The Croatian Football Federation has apologised after a swastika symbol was marked on to the pitch ahead of their Euro 2016 home qualifier against Italy. 
 
 "This is sabotage and a felony," said Tomislav Pacak, a Croatian Football Federation (HNS) spokesman. "We expect police to identify the perpetrators. 
 
 "This is a disgrace not just for the HNS but for the whole of Croatia." 
 
 The game was played behind closed doors after Croatia were punished for racist chants by fans against Norway in March. 
 
 Pacak added that Uefa had been told about the incident, which overshadowed the 1-1 draw between the two sides who are vying for top spot in Group H. 
 
 The swastika - widely recognised as the symbol of Nazi Germany - was seen during the first half and although ground staff at the stadium in Split tried to cover it up at half-time they were not successful. 
 
 It is unknown whether the symbol was mowed or painted into the grass, or who is responsible. 
 
 "As far as we have learned, the symbol was imprinted into the pitch between 24 and 48 hours before the match so that it could be visible during the game," added Pacak. 
 
 "We apologise to all fans watching the game on television, to both teams and to our guests from Italy for the Nazi symbol." 
 
 November's reverse fixture in Milan was stopped twice for crowd trouble, with riot police involved. 
 
 Croatia were forced to close part of their stadium for March's game against Norway as a punishment for their fans' behaviour at the San Siro. 
 
 But the supporters who did attend the Norway game caused more problems, leading to the Italy game to be played in an empty stadium. 
 
 "It's one of our problems and we are working to fix it,'' said Davor Suker, the president of the Croatian football association. "We'll speak about it on Saturday, but I'm very angry." ||||| ? 
 
 A Brentwood homeowners association that threatened to sue a family over their wheelchair ramp has apologized. 
 
 Last summer, Michael Broadnax, a popular Nashville pastor, suffered a debilitating stroke. A few months later, his family learned he could come home for rehabilitation, but they would need to install a wheelchair ramp in a few days before rehab officials would clear the move. 
 
 The family hired a legal contractor and had the ramp installed at the front of their home at the Woodlands at Copperstone in Brentwood. For the last several months, they thought everything was fine. But last week, their homeowners association threatened to sue if they didn't remove the ramp because the family didn't get permission and approval first. 
 
 Charlotte Broadnax, Michael Broadnax's wife, said since Channel 4's story first aired on Monday, she has received dozens of calls and letters expressing support for her and her husband. 
 
 "I've had several people come to my door in support," Charlotte Broadnax said. 
 
 Wednesday, Michael Broadnax came out of intensive care after his latest brain surgery. His wife has continued to battle her homeowners association, which mailed two letters demanding the wheelchair ramp be removed. 
 
 "I called to let them know I am trying to work this out," Charlotte Broadnax said. "I am trying to work with them and I want them to work with me." 
 
 After making several calls Wednesday to Ghertner and Company, which manages the HOA, Charlotte Broadnax received a hand-delivered letter of apology from the Woodlands at Copperstone Homeowners Association and its attorney, Alvin Harris. 
 
 "Please accept the apologies from my previous letter, which should not have been sent," said Charlotte Broadnax, reading from the letter. "It was not approved by all board members of the association and did not contain all the information that the board had previously discussed." 
 
 The letter explained the board's original intent was to bring to the Broadnaxes attention the ramp required a permit from the city of Brentwood and needed approval by the homeowners association's architectural review committee. 
 
 The homeowners association manager Elecia Lewis explained that board members noticed a lot of visitors on Sundays and thought the ramp might be for guests. 
 
 "She said, 'we did not know the owner of the house was the one that was in need,'" Charlotte Broadnax said. "I asked, 'Why didn't you come to the house and ask why the ramp was up instead of waiting seven and a half months?'" 
 
 The Federal Housing Act "makes it unlawful for any person to refuse to permit at the disabled person's expense, reasonable modifications of existing premises or to be occupied by a person if such modifications may be necessary to afford that person full enjoyment of the premises." 
 
 Beverly Watts, director of the Tennessee Human Rights Commission, reached out to make sure the family was protected legally. 
 
 "The homeowners association is responsible for contacting the individuals," Watts said. "The letter was a bit harsh, in our opinion. So they had already made a decision that there was no need to interact, that there was no need to talk with the homeowner about an accommodation. And that's what we were concerned about because that, in and of itself, is a violation of the law." 
 
 Tracey McCartney with the Tennessee Fair Housing Council said in an emailed statement: "Homeowners or renters who are trying to modify their unit for the use of a person with a disability and who are running into roadblocks are welcome to call the Tennessee Fair Housing Council at 615-874-2344.” 
 
 Charlotte Broadnax said she will be filling out the proper paperwork for the ramp. For now, her top priority is her husband's recovery. 
 
 "My focus is on [going] from the hospital to rehab and from rehab back home," she said. 
 
 The Broadnaxes no longer have a two-week deadline and will be working with the Brentwood Codes Department to make sure the ramp is in compliance. 
 
 The Tennessee Human Rights Commission and Tennessee Fair Housing can both assist people with disabilities work are seeking legal or anti-discrimination help. Both services are free. 
 
 For more information on housing modifications for disabled persons, click here. 
 
 Copyright 2015 WSMV (Meredith Corporation). All rights reserved. ||||| 
 
 Tim Hunt, winner of the Nobel Prize for Medicine, made troubling comments at the World Conference of Science Journalists in South Korea. (AP Photo/Alastair Grant, File) 
 
 Earlier this week at the World Conference of Science Journalists in Seoul, Nobel Prize-winning scientist Tim Hunt laid this on the audience during his remarks: “Three things happen when they are in the lab.... You fall in love with them, they fall in love with you, and when you criticize them, they cry." 
 
 Hunt, who won the 2001 Nobel Prize in medicine for his work on cell division and now works for Cancer Research UK, wasn't talking about whiny, distracting lab puppies. He was talking about women. 
 
 He went on to say that he thought people should work in gender-segregated labs but that he hoped such sentiment wouldn't "stand in the way of women." 
 
 The reaction in the science and science journalism community has been, well, about what you'd expect. I'm not going to embed any tweets, but my favorite lighthearted takes on the subject have been to the effect of well to be fair, most female scientists have a 'no Tim Hunt' policy in their labs and but where will we get that male co-author we're supposed to have if the lab is all female?! 
 
 [Sexism in science: Peer editor tells female researchers their study needs a male author] 
 
 Outside the Twittersphere, the Royal Society distanced itself from Hunt's remarks, reiterating its commitment to help women succeed in the sciences. 
 
 And why are Hunt's feelings so troubling? Well, there's this problem we've got where women are underrepresented in the sciences, math, technology and engineering. In fact, in Britain (Hunt's home country) only 13 percent of people working in STEM are women. In science academia, 84 percent of full-time professors in the field are men. The situation in the United States is perhaps a bit better, with women getting a share of science doctorates that hovers just above 25 percent. One recent study claimed the problem had been solved, but other scientists were quick to dismantle the flaws in its methodology and cast doubt on its conclusions. 
 
 [Gender gap: Women welcome in ‘hard working’ fields, but ‘genius’ fields are male-dominated, study finds] 
 
 This isn't to say that Hunt is the first Nobel laureate to use his elevated status to share some problematic remarks. James Watson is known for having some real zingers (of the racist and sexist variety) up his sleeve. What punishment did the politically correct hordes inflict on that soul? Well, he sold his Nobel Prize for $4 million, then had it returned to him by the Russian billionaire who'd bought it, as a gift. Rough, I know. 
 
 Hunt has since apologized via the BBC, but he seems to be as much in need of a lesson on proper apologies as he is on one in gender equality. From the BBC: 
 
 Speaking to BBC Radio 4's Today program, he said he was "really sorry that I said what I said," adding it was "a very stupid thing to do in the presence of all those journalists." The British biochemist, who became a Royal Society fellow in 1991, said the remarks were "intended as a light-hearted, ironic comment" but had been "interpreted deadly seriously by my audience." He went on to say he stood by some of the remarks. "I did mean the part about having trouble with girls," he said. "It is true that people -- I have fallen in love with people in the lab and people in the lab have fallen in love with me and it's very disruptive to the science because it's terribly important that in a lab people are on a level playing field. I found that these emotional entanglements made life very difficult. I'm really, really sorry I caused any offense, that's awful. I certainly didn't mean that. I just meant to be honest, actually." On his remarks about women crying, he said: "It's terribly important that you can criticize people's ideas without criticizing them and if they burst into tears, it means that you tend to hold back from getting at the absolute truth. "Science is about nothing but getting at the truth and anything that gets in the way of that diminishes, in my experience, the science." 
 
 Honesty is obviously important, but -- really? These remarks were only troublesome because journalists were there to be offended by them? Obviously no one can force Hunt to be repentant for his personal belief that women are emotional time bombs, but a non-apology is never the answer. What's a non-apology? Here's a good summary from Pacific Standard Magazine: 
 
 The term “non-apology” first appeared in 1971, but it wasn’t commonly used until the late '90s and then on into today. It’s when you apologize ... if you’ve offended anyone. “I’m sorry ... if you felt this way.” Or when you say you’re sorry because you didn’t mean to do whatever terrible thing you ended up doing. It’s a conditional apology. It’s an apology, plus more some words that make it into something that’s not an apology. 
 
 As the PS Mag piece goes on to explain, a non-apology is the aggressive version of an apology. To not apologize is passive, but to come out with one of these non-apologies shows an active refusal to admit your wrongdoing. 
 
 I've come under fire for being like "nah, that's sexist," before, so I decided to check my facts this time. 
 
 So, okay: Hunt is revealing that he has trouble dealing with women. There are probably a lot of older male scientists who feel this way. I know, I know, we ladies totally crashed the party! We're so cheeky. 
 
 If Hunt said he wanted single-sex labs because he couldn't help falling in love with female lab scientists -- well, that's kind of icky, too. But it's his insistence -- even in his apology -- that women, as a group, cry to get what they want that really sticks the landing. 
 
 [Science columnist tells student bothered by breast-ogling prof: ‘Put up with it’] 
 
 Maybe Hunt is guilty of hiring the wrong people all-around, if it's just inter-lab affairs and the howling lamentations of women in there 24/7. If Hunt has an HR problem, he should go ahead and fix it -- not use it as the basis for proposing that labs be segregated. (Also, how would that even work? Where would people outside the gender binary go? Would labs full of non-heterosexuals descend into the same weepy, chaotic interpersonal jumble that Hunt fears? I HAVE QUESTIONS.) 
 
 But let's call this what it really is: Just the inescapable truth for countless women working in science. They have colleagues -- bosses in position of great power, even, with globally recognized accolades -- who seem to genuinely believe they just can't help but cry when they're criticized. They can't help it, mind, it's a lady problem. And that's no way to do science now, is it? 
 
 [Sexism often comes with a smile, study finds] 
 
 When men believe women are inherently less capable of handling the rigors of science and working professionally without falling over themselves to date their colleagues, they're not going to be considered for the jobs they should be considered for. They're not going to perform as well in those labs. They're not even going to make it to those labs, because someone earlier in their career pipeline has already hit them with this roadblock. 
 
 No one expects another apology from Hunt: He's at peace with what he said. And that's the problem. Hunt's views are not outside the norm. They will not have him booted from his institution. No one wants his head on a platter. They just really really wish he could stop having these views, because they're incredibly harmful to women in a field that's already making women run up the down escalator. 
 
 In some ways, Hunt is right in apologizing only for saying these things in front of an audience that took offense. If he said them in his lab, it's safe to say, none of the women under fire would disagree with him. That would just be a bad career move. 
 
 Read More: 
 
 Men (on the Internet) don’t believe sexism is a problem in science, even when they see evidence 
 
 Cards Against Humanity releases science-themed expansion to benefit women in STEM 
 
 Can science make you less sexist while you sleep? 
 
 Sexism often comes with a smile, study finds 
 
 Sexism in science: Peer editor tells female researchers their study needs a male author ||||| Follow @marymitchellcst 
 
 Sen. Mark Kirk, 55, is a good example of why it never pays to try to keep up with the younger generation. 
 
 Instead of looking cool, you wind up saying stupid stuff that makes you look lame. 
 
 Kirk was caught on a live microphone Thursday referring to his Republican colleague and presidential hopeful Lindsey Graham as a “bro with no ho.” 
 
 I didn’t even know what that meant. My adult son had to fill me in. 
 
 “It just means he’s a single man,” my son explained. 
 
 OPINION 
 
 Follow @marymitchellcst 
 
 In my day, a “bro” was a black man with a ‘fro. As for “ho,” well, the definition of that slur hasn’t changed. Coming from the senator, the “bro with no ho” comment is an embarrassment. 
 
 But what was especially offensive was Kirk also saying, “That’s what we’d say on the South Side.” 
 
 Wait a minute. Since when did Kirk become a South Sider? 
 
 You can’t just proclaim yourself a South Sider. You’ve got to pay your dues by riding those overcrowded buses and trains, living in food deserts, traveling impossible distances to shop and navigating dangerous neighborhoods. 
 
 Kirk is from Highland Park — the land of plenty. 
 
 I know some people falsely claim to be from this side or that side of Chicago, when you’re really from the suburbs. That’s OK. 
 
 But Kirk has repeatedly pretended to have a grasp on what’s going on in these communities. 
 
 In 2013, he clashed with U.S. Rep. Bobby L. Rush, D-Illinois, when he called for the mass arrests of the Gangster Disciples, a gang he said numbered 18,000. 
 
 Rush called Kirk’s proposal “a middle-class, elitist white-boy solution to a problem he knows nothing about.” 
 
 The senator put his foot in his mouth again in an interview about economic development when he declared that black neighborhoods are the ones that people driver through faster. 
 
 I have no doubt that some white people are afraid to drive through black neighborhoods. But there are a lot of white people who work, live and play in black neighborhoods, and I would argue that they are safer in those neighborhoods than the young black males who live there. 
 
 A spokesman for Kirk dismissed his boss’ comments Thursday as a joke. 
 
 Maybe he should have added that was a joke that was in poor taste and which could prove costly. 
 
 The senator was engaging in the kind of bawdy banter some “bros” engage in when women aren’t a part of the conversation. That shows he really doesn’t get it. 
 
 Kirk is up for re-election. And two fierce women — U.S. Rep. Tammy Duckworth, D-Illinois, and Andrea Zopp, the former head of the Chicago Urban League — are seeking the Democratic nomination to face him. 
 
 Either one of these accomplished women could benefit from Kirk’s gaffe. I can’t wait to see how the “bro with no ho” soundbite ends up being used in campaign commercials. 
 
 Meantime, Kirk owes the South Side an apology. 
 
 While some African-American aldermen are still making an ugly fuss over New York filmmaker Spike Lee calling a movie he’s making in the city “Chiraq,” what Kirk’s doing is worse. 
 
 He’s stereotyping the black community, casting it in a negative light and then crowing about it. 
 
 Follow Mary Mitchell on Twitter: @MaryMitchellCST ||||| Diane Rehm, a Washington radio host whose show is widely syndicated on National Public Radio, apologized Wednesday for saying presidential candidate Bernie Sanders has Israeli citizenship, which Sanders repeatedly denied. 
 
 "On today’s show, I made a mistake," read "An Apology From Diane" on the episode's website. "Rather than asking Senator and Presidential Candidate Bernie Sanders whether he had dual U.S./Israeli citizenship, as I had read in a comment on Facebook, I stated it as fact." 
 
 "I want to apologize as well to all our listeners for having made an erroneous statement. I am sorry for the mistake. However, I am glad to play a role in putting this rumor to rest." 
 
 “I am glad to play a role in putting this rumor to rest.” Diane Rehm 
 
 Sanders, an independent Vermont senator who is running for the Democratic nomination for president, had talked about a variety of topics on Rehm's Wednesday's show, including foreign policy, when she declared, "Senator, you have dual citizenship with Israel." 
 
 Sanders, who was raised Jewish, interrupted her. 
 
 Sanders: No I do not have dual citizenship with Israel. I'm an American. That’s—I don't know where that question came from. I am an American citizen, and I have visited Israel on a couple of occasions. No, I'm an American citizen, period. Rehm: I understand from a list we have gotten that you were on that list. Forgive me if that is… Sanders: No, that’s some of the nonsense that goes on in the internet— Rehm: Interesting... Sanders: But that is not something that’s true. Rehm: Are there members of Congress that do have dual citizenship, or is that part of the fable? Sanders: I honestly don't know. 
 
 Sanders then said he was "offended a little bit by that comment," and said, "I do not have any dual citizenship." 
 
 Rehm apologized on the show again on Thursday, saying she had "made an erroneous statement," according to Poynter.org, a media blog. 
 
 "This is an issue that has come up over the years in American politics," she said, according to Poynter. "One of our listeners suggested by Facebook that I ask Senator Sanders about Internet speculation that he has dual citizenship with Israel. But instead of asking it as a question I stated it as fact and that was wrong."