Source: Multi-News

Story highlights Conservative activists at the Values Voters Summit in Washington booed Donald Trump Friday after he called Marco Rubio a "clown" 
 
 Rubio and Trump have been fighting all week, trading insults on-air and on Twitter 
 
 Washington (CNN) Donald Trump drew boos from religious conservatives Friday after he called Marco Rubio a "clown" and attacked him on immigration. 
 
 "You know there's this clown Marco Rubio, I've been so nice to him," Trump said at the Family Research Council's Values Voter Summit in Washington, D.C. 
 
 The jab was immediately met with sustained booing from many of those in attendance. 
 
 Trump tried to talk over the boos, which lasted several seconds: "I've been so nice to him. No. But I've been so nice." 
 
 Trump and Rubio have been anything but "nice" to each other this week, engaging in a continued back-and-forth that started Tuesday. 
 
 Read More ||||| Photo Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
 
 WASHINGTON — After training his fire for much of the summer on former Gov. Jeb Bush, Donald J. Trump has found a new favorite Republican rival to taunt: Senator Marco Rubio of Florida. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 But Mr. Rubio is proving capable of giving it back. And Mr. Trump also discovered on Friday that some conservatives do not respond as kindly when the insults are directed toward Mr. Rubio, who is not viewed with the sort of suspicion that Mr. Bush engenders among hard-line activists. 
 
 “You have this clown, Marco Rubio,” Mr. Trump began, in a speech to the Family Research Council’s Values Voter Summit here. “And I’ve been so nice to him.” 
 
 Before he could go further, though, the audience of social conservatives let out a cascade of boos. 
 
 Mr. Trump had brought a Bible with him on stage, but he is not a natural fit for movement conservatives, particularly the born-again Christians who are involved in politics chiefly because of their faith and attend conferences such as this. 
 
 He quickly turned to a safer line of attack, recalling that Mr. Rubio had been a leader in the push to provide a pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants before he abandoned that legislative effort. “If you believe in something, you have to be true to yourself,” said Mr. Trump, calling Mr. Rubio “really weak on immigration.” 
 
 Continue reading the main story First Draft Newsletter Subscribe for updates on the 2016 presidential race, the White House and Congress, delivered to your inbox Monday - Friday. 
 
 He added: “All of a sudden, he went down in the polls and he starts changing his tone.” 
 
 Mr. Rubio, trying out one of Mr. Trump’s favorite tactics by mocking him with feigned pity, shot back later in the day that Mr. Trump “had a tough week.” 
 
 “I think one of the statements he made was in front of an empty room in South Carolina,” Mr. Rubio said on Fox News. “He had a really bad debate. Carly Fiorina really embarrassed him.” 
 
 The back-and-forth was the latest signal of Mr. Rubio’s growing prominence in the Republican race. 
 
 Overshadowed for much of the year, Mr. Rubio has begun to inch up in the polls after a pair of solid debate performances. And after months of avoiding the fray with Mr. Trump, Mr. Rubio waded into it earlier this month, saying his inability to answer questions on national security was “very concerning.” 
 
 “If you don’t know the answer to these questions, then you are not going to be able to serve as commander and chief,” he said on CNN, referring to a radio interview in which Mr. Trump was unable to talk with much specificity about foreign policy matters. 
 
 That criticism prompted a wave of insults from Mr. Trump, who appears to have either tired of mocking Mr. Bush or determined that he no longer poses him the greatest threat among the primary contenders. 
 
 Speaking in North Charleston, S.C., on Wednesday — in a room that, as Mr. Rubio noted later, had scores of empty seats — Mr. Trump, 69, belittled Mr. Rubio, 44, for running up personal credit card debt. 
 
 “He’s got no money,” said Mr. Trump, who calls himself a billionaire 10 times over, “zero.” 
 
 He also declared that he had a superior head of hair and ridiculed Mr. Rubio for heavily perspiring during the Republican debate on Sept. 16. 
 
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
 
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
 
 The next day, Mr. Rubio responded by engaging in a bit of amateur psychology on a popular Kentucky sports talk radio show. 
 
 “He had a really bad debate performance last week,” Mr. Rubio said. “He’s not well informed on the issues. He really never talks about issues and can’t have more than a 10-second sound bite on any key issue. I think he’s kind of been exposed a little bit over the last seven days and he’s a touchy and insecure guy. So that’s how he reacts and people can see through it.” 
 
 Such talk, which Mr. Rubio continued in an interview on Fox News, set the stage for Mr. Trump’s trash-talking of Mr. Rubio at the Values Voter Summit on Friday morning. 
 
 Beforehand, though, word of House Speaker John A. Boehner’s abrupt resignation reached Mr. Trump as he made his way down a hotel staircase. But he showed surprisingly little interest in what was a political bombshell. 
 
 “Well it’s a big decision that he made, it’s a great decision,” Mr. Trump said. “I think so. I think it’s good for everybody. I think it’s time, he’s been there a long time. But I think it’s time.” (After further questions, Mr. Trump grasped for an escape hatch: “What do you think?” he asked his interviewer. “You tell me.”) 
 
 Approaching the ballroom where he would give his speech, Mr. Trump was swarmed by reporters who also wanted to ask him about Mr. Boehner. He repeated his answer — “It’s time” — and kept walking. 
 
 But then a reporter asked him about Mr. Rubio. Mr. Trump stopped and turned to the cameras. 
 
 “He doesn’t show up to vote for one thing,” said Mr. Trump, uncorking his now-familiar attack on Mr. Rubio’s record of absenteeism from Senate votes. 
 
 Asked if he thought Mr. Rubio was a “threat,” Mr. Trump said he did not. 
 
 “I think he’s a baby,” he said. ||||| The internet is a fickle place. For weeks, it lavished attention on the storyline that Jeb Bush was destined to play the role of chief antagonist to Donald Trump — Jeb would be Sherlock Holmes to Trump’s Professor Moriarty, bravely calling out Trump’s vile demagoguery and basking in accolades from it. 
 
 But Jeb’s efforts to challenge Trump failed to capture the imagination. Now, suddenly, the internet is abuzz with talk about how Marco Rubio is the one who is drawing blood from Trump, and talk of Rubio having a plausible shot at the nomination is on the rise. 
 
 The chatter about Rubio’s skillful engagement of Trump grew louder on twitter today when Trump, addressing the Values Voter Summit, called Rubio a “clown,” only to be met with loud booing. 
 
 “Tide turning?” tweeted National Journal’s Josh Kraushaar, as if to suggest that Rubio may have found the key to unlocking the forces that would finally bring down Trump. 
 
 Trump also seemed to let on that Rubio is getting under his skin in an interview today in which he called the Florida Senator a “baby.” 
 
 This came after Rubio tagged Trump as a “touchy and insecure guy” who has been “exposed a little bit over the last seven days.” Rubio was responding to an earlier Trump broadside in which the Donald described him as a “kid” and a “lightweight.” And Trump has also attacked Rubio by pointing out that he “sweats more than any young person I’ve ever seen in my life,” whatever that is supposed to tell us. 
 
 Suddenly, the political classes are talking about Rubio as Trump’s chief foil. Politico ran an analysis of Rubio’s new taking-it-to-Trump strategy, concluding that Rubio is a “skill puncher” and that the “benefits could be huge.” 
 
 It’s enough to make one feel sorry for Jeb. After all, Bush repeatedly tried to take on Trump, after the billionaire developed a habit of referring to Bush as “low energy.” Jeb has gone after Trump on precisely the thing about Trump that the political classes had been wringing their hands about, challenging Trump’s restrictionism and the evident pleasure he’s taken in insulting millions of immigrants. 
 
 At the recent GOP debate, Jeb earnestly challenged Trump’s attacks on Mexican immigrants by arguing that Republicans instead should take a “hopeful, optimistic approach” by welcoming them to this country to pursue the American dream. For good measure, Jeb even threw in a Reagan reference. But all anyone remembered about this exchange was Jeb’s failure to extract from Trump an apology to his wife; Jeb lost the alpha male battle of wills. 
 
 Now Jeb is dropping in the polls, and Rubio is rising (a little bit, anyway) in them. 
 
 It appears Rubio may simply be better at engaging Trump than Jeb is. Why? 
 
 Perhaps Jeb is just too earnest; he doesn’t know how to engage on Trump’s level, and Rubio does. Jeb is trying to engage the brash billionaire by prattling on about American values and tolerance. Boooooor-ing! Rubio, by contrast, tagged Trump as “touchy and insecure” and over “exposed,” a much more TV-and-internet-friendly hit that hints at questions about Trump’s masculinity. Rubio gets it! 
 
 Perhaps Rubio just has a better instinct for what we used to refer to, in the prehistoric days of the internet, as the “freak show,” the evolving 24-7 cable news and internet political media culture that, if anything, has only gotten freakier and more hyper-kinetic with the twitterization of politics. Jeb hasn’t been in politics for many years. Rubio, by contrast, was first elected to the Senate amid the 2010 Tea Party wave, when this internet/media/twitter/ political culture was really going into hyperdrive. 
 
 We may learn in coming days that Rubio just knows how attack Trump in ways that work better in this new media environment — and knows how to get under the reality TV master’s skin — in a manner that Jeb just can’t hope to fathom. Politics isn’t fair.