Source: Multi-News

Arab League monitors have met anti-government protesters but not been allowed into 'military zones' [YouTube] 
 
 Syria has rejected any plans to send Arab troops into the country, saying it will "confront" and "stand firm" against military intervention after the ruler of Qatar said in a television interview that Arab countries should step in with force. 
 
 The state-run SANA news agency quoted a "credible source" at the foreign ministry as saying on Tuesday that the country is "shocked" by the Qatari emir's comments, which "could worsen the conflict and kill the chances of Syria working closely with Arabs". 
 
 The source warned that it will be "unfortunate to see Arab blood flow on Syrian soil". 
 
 Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani was quoted by an American television programme on Sunday as suggesting that Arab troops should be sent to Syria to stop the deadly violence. 
 
 The interview, which was conducted late last year, was the first time an Arab leader had called for the deployment of troops inside the country. 
 
 The United Nations estimated in December that at least 5,000 people have been killed since protests against the government of President Bashar al-Assad broke out in March. 
 
 The organisation also believes at least 400 people have been killed since the Arab League first deployed observers - meant to oversee the implementation of a League-brokered peace plan - on December 26. 
 
 Militarised conflict 
 
 The initially peaceful uprising against Assad was met with deadly force and mass arrests and has in recent months turned into a militarised conflict between the government on one side and army defectors and armed civilians on the other. 
 
 Qatar, which once had close relations with Damascus, has been a harsh critic of crackdown and withdrew its ambassador during the summer. 
 
 Since revolts began to sweep the Arab world in December 2010, Qatar has aggressively supported opposition movements, most prominently in Libya, where it trained, armed and guided the fighters who overthrew the country's longstanding ruler, Muammar Gaddafi. 
 
 Assad and his government say "terrorists" are behind the uprising and that armed gangs are acting out a foreign conspiracy to destabilise the country. 
 
 The Syrian foreign ministry source told SANA on Tuesday that "it will be unfortunate to see Arab blood flow on Syrian territory just for the purpose of serving known agendas, especially that the foreign conspiracy against Syria has become very clear". 
 
 The statement also called on Arab countries to "help prevent the infiltration of terrorists and the smuggling of weapons into Syria". 
 
 The Arab League observer mission is expected to announce this week that Syria has failed to implement a peace plan brokered by the regional bloc. 
 
 Tug-of-war at UN 
 
 International diplomats at the UN Security Council, meanwhile, are debating a new resolution that will call for an end to the violence and is set to come to a vote in two weeks. 
 
 The US and European nations are at odds with Russia, which proposed the draft language and opposes intervention in Syria. 
 
 "Western countries say the resolution isn't tough enough, [the] Russians say it's not the Security Council's place to take sides in civil dispute," Al Jazeera's Kristin Saloomey reported from the United Nations. 
 
 The Russians do not want to see a Libya-style military intervention and "are not alone" in that desire, our correspondent said. 
 
 The draft resolution does not mention sanctioning Syria, which the US and European Union have done independently, she said. 
 
 Mandate to expire 
 
 The Arab League mission's mandate is due to expire on Thursday, and the bloc is set to meet on Sunday to discuss next steps, including possibly renewing the mission. 
 
 "The outcome of the contacts that have taken place over the past week between the Arab League and Syria have affirmed that Syria will not reject the renewal of the Arab monitoring mission for another month ... if the Arab foreign ministers call for this at the coming meeting," an Arab source told the Reuters news agency. 
 
 Syria will allow the number of monitors, currently fewer than 200, to increase, but will not agree to give them official fact-finding duties or let them visit off-limits "military zones". 
 
 Activists reported that at least 20 people died in Syria on Tuesday, mostly in the flashpoint city of Homs. 
 
 SANA reported that an "armed terrorist group" fired rocket-propelled grenades at an army checkpoint 9km southwest of Damascus on Monday, killing an officer and five soldiers. ||||| This image from amateur video made available by Shaam News Network on Monday, Jan. 16, 2012, purports to show Syrian security forces in Hama, Syria. (AP Photo/Shaam News Network via APTN) THE ASSOCIATED... (Associated Press) 
 
 Syria "absolutely rejects" any plans to send Arab troops into the country, the Foreign Ministry said Tuesday, even as the death toll mounts from the 10-month-old uprising against President Bashar Assad. 
 
 Assad has insisted there be no foreign intervention in Syria. He agreed under heavy regional pressure to admit some Arab League observers, but their effectiveness has been limited. 
 
 Activists said at least 18 people died Tuesday, and six Syrian soldiers were killed late Monday near Damascus. The revolt has turned increasingly militarized in recent months, with a growing risk of civil war. The U.N. says about 400 people have been killed in the last three weeks, on top of an earlier estimate of more than 5,000 dead since March. 
 
 Syrian activists said most of Tuesday's dead were shot by security forces or pro-regime gunmen. The reports could not be independently verified. 
 
 Attacks also were reported for a fifth day in the Damascus suburb of Zabadani, near the border with Lebanon. 
 
 The government rejection of armed intervention followed a remark from the leader of Qatar, Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani, who was quoted Sunday as saying Arab troops should be sent to Syria to stop the deadly violence _ the first statements by an Arab leader calling for the deployment of troops inside Syria. 
 
 Qatar, which once had close relations with Damascus, has been a harsh critic of the crackdown. Since the wave of Arab uprisings began more than a year ago, Qatar has taken an aggressive role, raising its influence in the region. 
 
 "The Syrian people reject any foreign intervention in its affairs, under any title, and would confront any attempt to infringe upon Syria's sovereignty and the integrity of its territories," the Foreign Ministry said in a statement. 
 
 The government says terrorists are behind the uprising, not reform-seekers, and that armed gangs are acting out a foreign conspiracy to destabilize the country. The regime says 2,000 members of the security forces have been killed. 
 
 Syria agreed last month to an Arab League plan that calls for a halt to the crackdown, the withdrawal of heavy weaponry like tanks from cities, the release of all political prisoners, and allowing foreign journalists and human rights workers in. 
 
 About 150 Arab League observers are working in Syria to verify whether the government is abiding by its agreement, and the League said Tuesday another 10 will head into Syria shortly. 
 
 So far they appear to have made little impact, and the conflict has reached a bloody stalemate, with both sides refusing to back down. 
 
 On Tuesday, the Dutch foreign minister called on Assad's opponents to form a "united, representative and inclusive" opposition to the regime, an indication that the fragmentation of the opposition movements is itself an issue. 
 
 Uri Rosenthal also said he would keep pressing for further European Union sanctions and a U.N. Security Council resolution on Syria. He spoke after meeting Burhan Ghalioun, leader of the Syrian National Council, an umbrella group for the opposition. 
 
 Ghalioun's visit came a day after Russia circulated a revised Security Council resolution on the violence in Syria. Western diplomats said the draft fell short of their demand for strong condemnation of Assad's crackdown. 
 
 The British-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said 18 people were killed in Syria on Tuesday, most of them shot dead by troops or pro-government gunmen. The Local Coordination Committees, another activist group, said 24 people were killed, 17 of them in the restive central province of Homs. 
 
 It was impossible to resolve the discrepancy or to independently verify the death toll. Syria has banned most foreign corespondents and restricted local coverage, making it impossible to get independent confirmation of the events on the ground. 
 
 The state-run news agency, SANA, reported violence targeting security forces and civilians Tuesday, saying a roadside bomb went off near a minibus in the northwestern province of Idlib, killing four and wounding five. 
 
 A video posted online by activists showed a minibus with its roof blown out and blood stains on the seats. The narrator blamed security forces for the attack. 
 
 Earlier in the day, SANA said that an "armed terrorist group" launched rocket-propelled grenades at an army checkpoint late Monday, killing an officer and five army personnel about six miles (nine kilometers) southwest of Damascus. 
 
 ___ 
 
 Associated Press writer Bassem Mroue contributed to this report.