Source: Multi-News

Cornell University LibraryArchive-It Partner Since: Mar, 2011Organization Type: Colleges & UniversitiesOrganization URL: http://www.library.cornell.edu Based on the number of volumes in its collections, Cornell University Library (CUL) is one of the ten largest academic research libraries in the United States. Within its 20 unit libraries, holdings number more than 7 million volumes and 7 million microforms. CUL subscribes to nearly 65,000 journals and serial publications, and provides access to more than 100,000 networked databases and other electronic resources. CUL collects web sites produced by affiliates of Cornell University, web sites from organizations or individuals whose records or papers are held in Cornell's archives, and web sites in subject areas corresponding to existing collection strengths. ||||| A pregnant woman was shot and killed in her sleep when someone opened fire on her southern Arizona home early Saturday, but doctors were able to deliver her baby, according to police. 
 
 The Tucson Police Department said in a news release several people in the home were awoken at 4:30 a.m. to the sounds of 19-year-old Jasmine Vega screaming before becoming "unresponsive." 
 
 Arriving officers found Vega unconscious and transported her to a local hospital, where she was pronounced dead. Vega was six months pregnant at the time, according to police. 
 
 "Hospital staff were able to successfully deliver her unborn child, who is currently being treated at the hospital," Tucson police said. 
 
 The baby's father, Anthony Rivera, told Tucson News Now the baby boy is in critical condition and on life support. 
 
 TEXAS WOMAN WHO HAD MISCARRIAGE STABBED FRIEND TO DEATH, TOOK INFANT, POLICE SAY 
 
 Evidence at the scene, including "several projectile holes in the walls of the residence," indicates multiple gunshots were fired into the home, police said. 
 
 It's not yet known if anyone was specifically targeted in the shooting. No one else was injured in the shooting, police added. 
 
 Authorities have not identified any suspects, and are asking anyone with information about the shooting to contact police. ||||| Jasmine Vega, 19, was 6-months-pregnant when she was shot and killed (Source: Anthony Rivera). 
 
 A young Arizona family was shattered days before Christmas when a random shooting took the life of a sleeping pregnant woman. 
 
 The Tucson Police Department said Jasmine Vega, 19, was shot early Saturday, Dec. 23, while inside a home in the 1500 block of West Calle Guadalajara. 
 
 The TPD confirmed the shots were fired from outside the home and they are investigating the incident. There are no suspects in custody. 
 
 Vega, who was 6 months pregnant, died at the hospital but staff were able to deliver her son. 
 
 Anthony Rivera, Vega's boyfriend, said his young son is in critical condition and on life support. 
 
 "All I was thinking was I wish your mom was right here to see you," Rivera said. "It sucks. It sucks seeing your baby like that." 
 
 The family knows moving forward won't be easy, but remembering Vega does bring some relief on these dark days. 
 
 "She was amazing, fun, loving, outgoing, big heart," Rivera said. 
 
 Angelina Ruelas, Rivera's mother, said things will never be the same. 
 
 "We were just wrapping presents last night," Ruelas said. "She was happy to be a mom, she wanted a baby so bad. "I'm not going to tell him it's going to be OK, because it's not." 
 
 MOBILE USERS: Download our Tucson News Now app for Apple and Android devices. 
 
 Copyright 2017 Tucson News Now. All rights reserved.