Source: Multi-News

Coke's ad for the 2013 Super Bowl ad, entitled "Mirage," asks viewers to vote on Twitter via hashtags to choose the end of the commercial and whether the "Showgirls," "Cowboys," or "Badlanders" win the race. 
 
 Over 50 commercials will air during the Super Bowl this year, all screaming, preening, and strutting for your attention. But there's five that are definitely worth skipping out on re-filling the chip and dip trough and watching with your full attention, Matt Miller, President & CEO of the Association of Independent Commercial Producers told TODAY. This year, it's all abut the social, and getting people to pass on the ads and replay them, for free, online. 
 
 "It's all about the engagement, we're teasing spots, people are watching using a second screen, and we're hoping they will pass them on. And the numbers say they are," said Miller. "35 percent are looking at the ads beforehand and 40 percent are sharing them after." 
 
 Coke is really getting into the social media game with their fun ad, "Mirage." It features three teams racing to be the first to the Coke desert oasis and viewers can vote in Twitter via hashtags whether the "Showgirls," "Cowboys," or "Badlanders" are the winners. 
 
 "It brings in gamification of advertising," said Miller. "It's a real buzzword, people are watching and voting as the ad airs." 
 
 Doritos, for the 7th year in a row, is reprising their "Crash the Superbowl" campaign which lets fans submit their own home-made commercials and the best one gets aired during the big game. This year's winner features a father whose daughter bribes him with a bag of Doritos to turn down hanging with the bros and play pretty princess instead. 
 
 Doritos, for the 7th year in a row, is reprising their "Crash the Superbowl" campaign which lets fans submit their own home-made commercials and the best one gets aired during the big game. The winner gets $1 million and a chance to work with director Michael Bay on the next "Transformers" movie. Almost a decade later, the mere fact that the ad is user-created no longer automatically makes the strategy compelling. But with the cost of prosumer cameras falling, the production quality on some of them is actually pretty good, and the jokes aren't half bad either. This year's features a father whose daughter bribes him with a bag of Doritos to turn down hanging with the bros and play pretty princess instead. 
 
 "It's a sitcom brought to you by Doritos," said Miller. 
 
 The "Crash the Super Bowl" campaign, "jumped the shark for a while with professionals jumping into the act," said Miller, "but this year's is a student piece." 
 
 Go Daddy is keeping it classy with this year's Super Bowl ad featuring a rich guy on a private jet shouting, "More everything, sky waitress!" after he beats his peers around the world in registering his big idea online. 
 
 GoDaddy, the king of cheeky Super Bowl ads that have drawn flack for pushing the "sex sells" maxim a bit too far, is back again, and this time they're going to play it classy. The domain name registration companies new spot focuses on "Your Big Idea," and while there's beautiful women aplenty in the ad, based on the leaked online previews they all seem to be fully clothed. In SuperBowl ad land, this counts as maturity. Then again, the ad does end with a rich guy on a private jet shouting, "More everything, sky waitress!" 
 
 "It's a great punchline," said Miller. Danica Patrick has appeared in 12 of their Super Bowl ads over the past 9 years, but, said Miller "GoDaddy always made them in-house but this year they went with the Deutsch agency to bring in some new ideas." Which is good, he said, because with the ads before "we didn't really know what GoDaddy was about." 
 
 (Speaking of controversy this year, does the "Jamaican flavor" of Volkswagen's Super Bowl ad go too far? Watch and vote.) 
 
 Taco Bell has already "leaked" the online teaser for its 60-second "Viva Young" ad, and with over 350,000 YouTube hits, it's officially gone viral. It features 87 year-old Bernie Goldblatt and friends on an epic nighttime adventure. They escape from their retirement home, take some unauthorized dips in someone else's pool, hit the dance club and tattoo parlor, and finally cruise to Taco Bell for their "Fourth Meal." 
 
 When you think SuperBowl ads, you think Budweiser, and when you think Budweiser Super Bowl ads, there's gotta be some of their famous Clydesdales in there. The brand has launched its first Twitter account and its first tweet was a photo of a new Budweiser Clydesdale born January 16. The beer brand is asking fans to submit their name suggestions via Twitter using #clydesdales. The foal, along with its user-generated moniker, will appear on Sunday. ||||| LOS ANGELES Arab-American groups have sharply criticized a Coca-Cola Super Bowl ad depicting an Arab walking through the desert with a camel, and one group said it would ask the beverage giant to change it before CBS airs the game on Sunday before an expected audience of more than 100 million U.S. viewers. 
 
 "Why is it that Arabs are always shown as either oil-rich sheiks, terrorists, or belly dancers?" said Warren David, president of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, or ADC. 
 
 Coca-Cola released an online teaser of the commercial last week, showing the Arab walking through a desert. He soon sees cowboys, Las Vegas showgirls and a motley crew fashioned after the marauders of the apocalyptic "Mad Max" film race by him to reach a gigantic bottle of Coke. 
 
 In its ad, Coke asks viewers to vote online on which characters should win the race. The online site does not allow a vote for the Arab character. 
 
 "The Coke commercial for the Super Bowl is racist, portraying Arabs as backward and foolish Camel Jockeys, and they have no chance to win in the world," Imam Ali Siddiqui, president of the Muslim Institute for Interfaith Studies, said in an email. 
 
 "What message is Coke sending with this?" asked Abed Ayoub, ADC's director of legal and policy affairs. "By not including the Arab in the race, it is clear that the Arab is held to a different standard when compared to the other characters in the commercial," he said. 
 
 CBS declined comment. Coca-Cola spokeswoman Lauren Thompson said Coke took a "cinematic" approach with the ad, employing the characters as a nod to movies of the past. 
 
 "Coca-Cola is an inclusive brand enjoyed by all demographics," she said in an email. "We illustrate our core values, from fun and refreshment to happiness, inspiration and optimism across all of our marketing communications." 
 
 Ayoub said ADC intended to contact Coke and CBS Corp on Thursday to "hopefully start a dialog." 
 
 "I want to know why this happened and how can we fix this if possible before Sunday," he said. 
 
 The ADC garnered attention back in 1992 when it complained that lyrics in the Walt Disney animated film "Aladdin" were racist. 
 
 Ronald Goodstein, professor at the McDonough School of Business at Georgetown University, said he was surprised by the image as well. "If Coke's vision is to be an arm's distance away from every customer, why would they want to offend the Arab world?" said Goodstein. 
 
 Ayoub said the commercial could harm Coke's business with the Arab community. 
 
 "Coke should understand and respect their consumers and have a better understanding of the market they are sharing," he Ayoub. 
 
 The company has a large market share in the Middle East and North Africa, he noted, and many convenience stores and other retail outlets in the United States that offer Coke are owned by Arab-Americans. 
 
 (Editing by Eric Walsh) ||||| Published on What's hot? The all-new Mercedes-Benz CLA. What's hotter? Kate Upton washing it in slow motion. 
 
 
 
 To see more Kate, visit: http://mbenz.us/CLA_FB Category Autos & Vehicles 
 
 License Standard YouTube License Show more Show less 
 
 Loading... 
 
 Loading... 
 
 Loading... 
 
 Loading... 
 
 Ratings have been disabled for this video. 
 
 Rating is available when the video has been rented. ||||| Don’t misunderstand John Norman, the chief creative officer at TBWA/Chiat/Day Los Angeles. He is excited to be working on a commercial, for Pepsi Next cola, that will appear during Super Bowl XLVII on Sunday — the biggest day of the year for advertising as well as for football. 
 
 Still, he is disappointed that consumers can already watch an extended version of the commercial online, in stark contrast to a decades-old strategy of building anticipation for Super Bowl spots by keeping them under wraps until the game. 
 
 “I’m more of the old school; I like the element of surprise,” Mr. Norman said. “If I ruled the world, I’d go back to holding out and waiting.” 
 
 His client, the PepsiCo Beverages division of PepsiCo, which makes Pepsi Next, sees it differently. The company is among a long list of Super Bowl sponsors jumping the gun by sharing commercials — shorter versions, longer versions or the versions that will appear on Sunday — hours, days or even weeks before the game. 
 
 “The world has changed,” said Angelique Krembs, vice president for marketing for the Pepsi trademark at PepsiCo Beverages. “The conversation used to happen after the game. Now, enabled by social media, there’s a lot of conversation before the game about what’s coming up, and we want to be the most talked-about brand in that conversation.” 
 
 The willingness of consumers to watch ads on social media like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube — and to discuss and share them with friends and family — is rewriting the Super Bowl playbook for Madison Avenue. Marketers and agencies are deciding that it’s better to give up the benefits of surprising viewers during the game in favor of gaining additional attention before. 
 
 “We don’t see any down side” to forgoing the “aha!” moment during the game, said Scott Campbell, general manager for integrated marketing communications at Colgate-Palmolive, which bought a Super Bowl commercial for its Mennen Speed Stick deodorant and uploaded the spot to the brand’s YouTube channel on Wednesday. 
 
 “I don’t think we’ll get 110 million viewers before the game,” Mr. Campbell said, referring to the number of people expected to watch the Super Bowl, “but whatever we get by giving it to our online community is all to the plus.” 
 
 Another reason Colgate-Palmolive released the commercial early on social media was that it is part of “a campaign that was social from the get-go,” he said. The campaign began with a contest on Twitter, and the commercial was produced through Tongal, a company that uses a crowdsourcing model to develop creative ideas for ads. 
 
 To be sure, priming the pump before a Super Bowl spot runs does not guarantee success. 
 
 “Pre-announcements can build up hype, but if the ad isn’t seen as dynamic, innovative or exciting, I don’t think the sneak peeks work,” said George R. Cook, executive professor of marketing and psychology at the Simon Graduate School of Business at the University of Rochester. “There may not be so much ‘wow’ or positive bounce.” 
 
 Another risk, Professor Cook said, is that “the message can wear out” before the game, lowering the return on the large investment in a Super Bowl campaign. CBS, which is broadcasting Super Bowl XLVII, is charging an estimated $3.7 million to $3.8 million for 30 seconds of commercial time, with some going for $4 million. 
 
 Opening the kimono before Super Bowl Sunday may also backfire if consumers dislike what they see. For instance, Volkswagen of America has been fending off negative responses to its Super Bowl ad since previews began online on Monday. 
 
 The Volkswagen spot features an actor playing a white Minnesotan who speaks with a lilting “Yah, mon” Jamaican accent, meant to encourage drivers to “get happy.” The commercial, by Deutsch L.A., has been denounced as culturally insensitive or racist. 
 
 “We didn’t go in saying, ‘Could there be a backlash?’ ” said Tim Mahoney, chief marketing officer at Volkswagen of America, because testing showed that the ad conveyed “the message we want to deliver, that this is a brand that can put a smile on your face.” 
 
 “I’m pretty pleased that within 24 hours we had 1.1 million people watch the spot” on YouTube, Mr. Mahoney said. That figure had grown to more than 2.1 million Wednesday night, and despite the criticism, he said, reactions have been “overwhelmingly positive.” 
 
 The additional time to scrutinize the contents of Super Bowl commercials also means a much earlier start to the postgame tradition of challenging the ad industry’s creativity by pointing out all of the spots that echo one another. For example, several commercials, including Pepsi Next’s, will promote free coupons and other giveaways. 
 
 And at least two commercials, for E*Trade and Kia, include images of baby astronauts, while a third, for the new Axe Apollo line of products, sold by Unilever, features a young male astronaut. 
 
 Matthew McCarthy, senior director of brand development for Axe North America at Unilever, said he was undaunted by pregame comparisons. “Do I hope having assets out there before the Super Bowl generates buzz?” he said. “Of course I’d like that.” The Axe Apollo commercial was created by Bartle Bogle Hegarty. 
 
 As for E*Trade, “luckily, our spot has only one second” of a baby astronaut amid a variety of images, said Tor Myhren, president and chief creative officer at Grey New York, which creates E*Trade’s ads. 
 
 The commercial, scheduled for social media on Friday, features the “talking” E*Trade baby advising investors not to waste money on 401(k) fees. In addition to visiting space, the baby indulges in pursuits like playing polo and drinking — milk — at a nightclub. 
 
 “I have mixed emotions about running Super Bowl spots early,” Mr. Myhren said, because it dilutes the appeal of the game as “America’s last campfire, where everyone gets together to watch the same thing at the same time.” 
 
 Even so, “you spend a lot of money on a 30-second commercial in the Super Bowl,” he said. “You may be a fool not to leverage the opportunities.” ||||| At least 15 advertisers are expected to launch teasers for their ads running during Super Bowl XLVII. The goal is to create interest for ads without spilling the beans on the Game Day spot. Here are 5 teaser ads to seek out online before the game on Sunday: 
 
 (Click Prev or Next to continue viewing images.) 
 
 ADVERTISEMENT (Click Prev or Next to continue viewing images.) 
 
 This screenshot provided by Gildan Activewear shows the Super Bowl teaser advertisement for Gildan Activewear. In the teaser, an unknown man wakes up wearing furry handcuffs, his face covered in smeared... (Associated Press) 
 
 This screenshot provided by Kraft shows the Super Bowl teaser advertisement for Volkswagen called “Get In. Get Happy. (AP Photo/Volkswagen) (Associated Press) 
 
 1. Mercedes-Benz: In a spot that has gotten 5.4 million views on Youtube.com, supermodel Kate Upton wears a low-cut tank top as she oversees football players washing her car. 
 
 On the Web: http://www.youtube.com/watch?vuPq7jVGPs3g 
 
 2. Volkswagen: Volkswagen's teaser spot shows people who have starred in videos online previously erupting in temper tantrums on a sunny hilltop to sing "Get Happy" with reggae singer Jimmy Cliff 
 
 On the Web: http://www.youtube.com/watch?vNfCm9P8naDQ 
 
 3. Gildan Activewear: First-time Super Bowl advertiser Gildan Activewear teases a spot that shows a man waking up dazed in a bedroom with furry handcuffs around his wrist. 
 
 On the Web: http://www.youtube.com/user/GildanTV?v_KIKjcMTKPk 
 
 4. Kraft's Mio: "30 Rock" star Tracy Morgan appears to say a bleeped out profanity in a teaser to introduce Mio's sports drink drops, Mio Fit. 
 
 On the Web: http://www.youtube.com/watch?veenSfU7YYnY 
 
 5. Toyota: "Big Bang Theory" star Kaley Cuoco grants wishes to a peppy song in the teaser for Toyota's spot. 
 
 On the Web: http://www.youtube.com/watch?voKnuMIIEtoo ||||| Published on 
 
 The Chase may be over, but you can catch Coca-Cola's epic 2013 Super Bowl ad here! To see more videos, check out http://www.CokeChase.com/