Source: Multi-News

Willow Palin and her high school buddies trashed a vacant house in Alaska. Now it appears residents of the Mat-Su Valley are pissed that Sarah Palin got Willow off the hook. Watch out, Sarah. The small town scene is brutal. 
 
 Here is how Sarah Palin will be destroyed by petty small town drama. Her daughter Willow (Not the Levi Johnston one) runs with the wrong crowd at Colony High School in Palmer, Alaska. One source told the National Inquirer: 
 
 Willow has been running with the wrong crowd... They are a popular high school clique known as the Colony Girls, who are well known as hard partiers and are regularly involved in underage drinking and smoking dope. 
 
 Every kid in the Mat-su Valley simultaneously hates and envies the Colony Girls: They are envious of their social success and resentful that this success allows them to get away with things they can't. They transcend bad kid/good kid dynamic that so defines their own experience. It's not fair! 
 
 It is December, 2009. Willow Palin and her Colony Girls throw a super sweet party at a house they know is for sale. Willow, apparently, is the one who leads them to the house. The rager is so epic it caused "between twenty to thirty thousand dollars in damage," according to the Immoral Minority. 
 
 The lock had been forced, five wooden doors had been so badly damaged they needed to be replaced, the walls and floors had been gouged with knives, and vodka and orange juice containers were strewn all over the house. It also appeared that sexual activity had taken place on some of the beds, and a computer, some winter gear, and clothing had all been stolen. 
 
 Everyone hears about the party. The on January 13th, according to The Immoral Minority, the homeowner discovers their trashed house and the cops are called. The National Enquirer picks up the story. The Colony Girls are in trouble! Resentment overtakes envy: Finally, the Colony Girls will get their due. 
 
 But just like that, the heat is off the Colony Girls. According to The Immoral Minority, a "secret weekend meeting" took place between State Troopers and the Palins. After the meeting, the probation officer decides to charge only the boys engaged in the crime. "The girls would only be identified as 'witnesses' and face no criminal penalties." 
 
 Now all Mat-Su Valley rages. The Immoral Minority writes, "sources have told me that a number of the parents are very unhappy that their children will face charges and that Willow and the other girls will not." Having grown up in a small town ourselves, we know for a fact that this kind of thing makes people vicious to an extent that would give Mexican drug cartels pause. Years of the Colony Girls getting off the hook have culminated in this ultimate injustice, now it's all-out provincial war. And, given the target, it will be waged on a national level. Sarah Palin better start paying for some Mat-Su Valley high school gym floors to be refinished or something. ||||| 
 
 Hours after LL Cool J complained that Fox News was recycling an old interview with him for a new program hosted by Sarah Palin, representatives for the country musician Toby Keith, who was also listed as a guest for the show, made a similar charge against the cable channel. 
 
 In a telephone interview on Wednesday, Elaine Schock, a publicist for Mr. Keith said: “I have no idea what interview they are using. Toby’s talked to Fox a number of times, and I had no idea that this was going to be on Sarah Palin’s special. Fox has never contacted me — not now, not when they were putting this together, not at all. I have no idea what they’re using.” 
 
 Mr. Keith, whose songs include “Courtesy of the Red, White, & Blue,” was announced as a guest on “Real American Stories,” a program that Fox News has scheduled for Thursday night. Ms. Schock said he had not been interviewed by Fox News since 2008. Update: In a subsequent email message, Ms. Schock said that the interview with Mr. Keith likely happened in early 2009. 
 
 Asked if Mr. Keith was ever interviewed by Ms. Palin, Ms. Schock said, “Absolutely not.” 
 
 LL Cool J, the rapper and actor, wrote Tuesday on his Twitter feed that Fox News was “misrepresenting” him by using a 2008 interview in its promotions and advertisements for the show. On Wednesday, Fox News said it had dropped him from “Real American Stories.” 
 
 A Fox News executive said Wednesday that Mr. Keith’s team was informed Monday that his interview was to be a part of the Palin show. The executive, who asked not to be identified because all official comments were limited to formal statements about the special that the channel issued Wednesday, said a producer on the program sent an email message to Ms. Schock Monday, with the information that Mr. Keith would be included in the show. 
 
 According to a copy of an email message provided to The Times, the producer wrote Ms. Schock saying, “You may recall that almost a year ago, we did an interview with Toby Keith for our program Real American Stories. I’m happy to report our show is finally going to air.” 
 
 In a separate telephone interview Wednesday, Ms. Schock said that she spent much of the day looking through her email messages to see if she had been contacted by Fox News. “The last email I have from them is from January, 2009,” she said. She added, “I’m not saying Fox did not email me. Maybe they spelled my name wrong. I’m just saying I never got an email or a phone call from them.” 
 
 In the press release that Fox issued Monday announcing the special, it was described as being “hosted by Sarah Palin” but did not say she interviewed the people in it. The release said the show would “feature Toby Keith.” It also said LL Cool J and Mr. Welch would “both speak about their success” in a separate segment called “In Their Own Words.” 
 
 But several accounts of the special reported that Ms. Palin herself would be talking to the guests in the show. One of these, on the Fox Nation website, which is owned by Fox News, reprinted an account from the website The Hill, which said: 
 
 “Sarah Palin will kick off her new Fox News series with one of the most diverse guest lineups in memory: LL Cool J, Toby Keith, and Jack Welch. The three very different guests will speak to Palin for her inaugural episode of ‘ American Stories ‘ on April 1st.” 
 
 Ms. Schock said she remained surprised that Fox News had not made any further efforts to reach her, not even Wednesday when the issue of how the show was put together was being raised. “I’m still waiting for the phone call,” she said. 
 
 But she acknowledged that the video footage of Mr. Keith being interviewed by a Fox News producer was the property of the network and could be used without any further permission. She said she did not intend to ask Fox News to exclude the material. 
 
 As for Mr. Keith, Ms. Schock said she had spoken to the singer about his inclusion in the Palin special. Asked his reaction, she said, “I’m not going to comment on what Toby feels about it.”