Source: Multi-News

Sunday started out as a normal day waiting tables for Claire Hudson. 
 
 The 25-year-old was working a double shift for her job at local burger joint, Mac's Grub Shak, when something amazing happened. 
 
 "It was actually a really slow day and then this couple came in," said Hudson of Spring Hill, Tennessee. "I didn’t even realize the tip until after they were gone." 
 
 The unidentified diners had left a $36 tip on a bill that couldn't have been more than $30, Hudson told ABC News. 
 
 "I would’ve liked to have caught them and said 'hey this is awesome!,' she said. "They did it anonymously and it was really sweet." 
 
 In addition to the $36, the couple also left Hudson with a note explaining the heartfelt meaning behind the digits. 
 
 "Today is my brother's b-day," it said, written behind the credit card receipt. "He would have been 36 today. Every year I go eat his favorite meal (hot dogs) and tip the waitress his age. Happy B-day Wes." 
 
 Claire Hudson 
 
 "I was in tears when I read it," Hudson said. "I had to go in the back of the restaurant and compose myself before I went out to my other tables." 
 
 About three hours after the experience, Hudson posted an image of her customer's note on Reddit. 
 
 "When I woke up I was on the front page," she said. "It had over 1.5 million views on Imgur and 350K upvotes on Reddit." 
 
 In light of her story going viral, Hudson and the restaurant owner hope to track down the kind patron that left the tip. 
 
 "We want to see what his brother Wes liked on his hot dogs because we'd like to name a hot dog after him," she said. 
 
 "I have a friend, he was my best friend, he died about three years ago. This experience has definitely given me the idea to do the same thing on his birthday every year. It was deeply moving and just the coolest thing that’s ever happened." ||||| The hit HLN Original Series series, Something's Killing Me with BD Wong, investigates puzzling and sometimes fatal medical cases, where life literally hangs in the balance. Each week physicians and scientists race against time to solve the mystery that will save their patient's life. Through six one-hour episodes, family members, medical experts and CNN correspondents, including CNN Chief Medical Correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta and Senior Medical Correspondent Elizabeth Cohen, take viewers through the twists and turns of real, heart pounding stories. ||||| Good News Waitress shares the heartwarming way a customer honored his late brother March 10, 2015 at 4:24 PM ET 
 
 Claire Hudson got the best tip of her life this week, but it wasn't about the money. 
 
 At first, the 25-year-old waitress at Mac's Grub Shack in Spring Hill, Tennessee didn't even notice the note scrawled on the back of the receipt left by a "very sweet couple" who'd ordered beers, a burger and hot dogs. 
 
 Courtesy of Claire Hudson 
 
 "Today is my brother's b-day," read the note. "He would have been 36 today. Every year I go eat his favorite meal (hot dogs) and tip the waitress his age. Happy b-day Wes." 
 
 Hudson says she was "deeply moved" by the message. 
 
 "I didn't even see their receipt until after they left!" she told TODAY.com. 
 
 "I've been a server for several years and this is the best tip I've ever gotten," she added. "Not because of the money, but because of the meaning." 
 
 Courtesy of Claire Hudson 
 
 She posted the picture to Reddit, where it quickly got noticed, as people were moved by the story. 
 
 "I love Reddit and felt like it was a great picture that should be shared," she said. "I had no idea it would get that much attention! I think it's fantastic that so many people liked it, but I mainly wanted to share the sweet memory." 
 
 Hudson hopes they can give the diner a lasting legacy for his brother, in food form. 
 
 "The owner of my restaurant, Michael McCray, is trying to contact the patrons and find out what Wes liked on his hot dogs so we can add it to the menu," she said.