Source: Multi-News

Foreign policy may offer U.S. President Barack Obama his best chance to strike a unifying chord in a State of the Union address that would otherwise be dominated by divisive domestic and economic issues. 
 
 Specifically, the president should emphasize America’s embrace of human and democratic rights, values that transcend parties and administrations. He would echo Jimmy Carter’s clarion call for human rights, Ronald Reagan’s statements on the oppression of Soviet Jews, Bill Clinton and Madeleine Albright’s communities of democracy, and George W. Bush’s commitment to freedom as he began his second term. 
 
 State of the Union speeches aren’t the venue for nuance. But the president could acknowledge, with mentions of the Middle East and the troubled Arab Spring, that U.S. values are central to its foreign policy, even though furthering this ideal is never easy, and success may not be near. 
 
 Even Senator John McCain, in a grouchy mood, would applaud. 
 
 The so-called pivot to Asia and the troubled Middle East have been the dominant themes of the Obama administration’s foreign policy. In his speech, the president would do well to pay tribute to Europe, a signal that even as the U.S. faces new challenges it won’t ignore old allies and alliances. 
 
 A call for a trans-Atlantic free-trade zone would be compelling, even if there are doubts whether Europe’s tenuous financial condition makes that a realistic goal now. 
 
 A commitment to more aggressive promotion of global trade pacts captures America’s can-do essence, offers a positive economic message and appeals to more than a few Republicans. 
 
 The president is certain to pay tribute to the military, as he should after a national election that largely avoided mention of the tens of thousands of men and women in uniform who risk their lives every day in Afghanistan and elsewhere. Obama should offer a new GI Bill of Rights for veterans returning to a still recovering economy. 
 
 (Albert R. Hunt is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own. This is one of 11 suggestions Bloomberg View columnists made for the foreign policy section of Barack Obama's State of the Union address. Read more here. ) 
 
 To contact the writer of this column: Al Hunt in Washington at ahunt1@bloomberg.net. 
 
 To contact the editor responsible for this column: Max Berley at mberley@bloomberg.net. ||||| If President Obama wants immigration reform that includes a path to citizenship for undocumented workers, he may not want to mention it at all in tonight’s State of the Union speech, a new Washington Post poll suggests. 
 
 Seven in 10 people in the survey said they would support a path to citizenship, including 60 percent of Republicans. But when the same question was asked of a separate sample of respondents, this time with Obama’s name attached to it, support dropped to 59 percent overall and just 39 percent among Republicans. 
 
 On other hot-button issues like banning the sale of semi-automatic assault weapons or ending the war in Afghanistan, however, lending Obama’s name to the proposal made each viewed more favorably — and therefore if he were to put his political weight behind them it could actually increase their chances of passing. On doing something about climate change, there was no noticeable movement. 
 
 Here’s the full chart, courtesy of our friends at Capital Insight: 
 
 Look deeper into the numbers and you can see how much partisanship drives the movement on each of the issues. 
 
 On a path to citizenship, Republicans don’t mind the idea in theory but loathe it when attached to Obama. Independents are slightly less likely to support a path to citizenship if it is cast as Obama’s proposal, while Democrats favor it in basically the same numbers with or without the president’s name being mentioned. 
 
 The reverse is also true. While six in 10 Democrats support an assault weapons ban, that number jumps to more than three in four when the proposal is cast as Obama’s. Independents move slightly more in favor of an assault weapon ban when Obama is tied to it, while Republicans don’t like the idea with or without Obama. 
 
 Here are the four issues broken down by party identification: 
 
 The results aren’t terribly surprising. Partisan polarization has never been higher in the country and, therefore, Obama’s name attached to a proposal can really move the needle among the bases of each party. 
 
 But they do provide a fascinating backdrop for Obama’s State of the Union speech tonight and make clear how the issues he chooses to emphasize as his own could well make a major difference in whether those proposals can pass through Congress. 
 
 Hagel showdown set for today: Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Carl Levin (D-Mich.) on Monday set a vote on Chuck Hagel’s confirmation for 2:30 p.m. today, at which point Republicans on the committee will be faced with a stark choice. 
 
 Some in the GOP are still upset about the lack of disclosure from Hagel and from the administration when it comes to the deaths of four Americans in Benghazi, Libya. And there was even some chatter that some of them might stage a walkout. 
 
 Doing so on the eve of the State of the Union, needless to say, would be a huge story and would highlight the partisan divisions in Congress. Levin seems to be trying to call the GOP’s bluff. 
 
 And it might be a smart move. Perhaps the leading GOP senator on foreign policy matters, John McCain (R-Ariz.), says he won’t walk out and that doing so would be disrespectful. And neither will the panel’s ranking Republican, Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.). 
 
 From here, the question is whether the GOP is united in its opposition to Hagel and whether it will opt for seldom-used and risky tactics to stop his confirmation. Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), for example, has threatened to put a hold on Hagel’s nomination in the larger chamber. 
 
 Oh, and for what it’s worth, Hagel’s brother says Hagel is only emboldened by the opposition. 
 
 Fixbits: 
 
 Michael Bloomberg has made a six-figure donation to Gabby Giffords and Mark Kelly’s new PAC. 
 
 Oregon, whose voters banned gay marriage in 2004 by double digits, may vote on whether to overturn that ban in 2014. 
 
 State of the Union update: Ted Nugent will be Rep. Steve Stockman’s (R-Tex.) guest, while a man fighting deportation will be Rep. Luis Gutierrez’s (D-Ill.). 
 
 Former Senate candidate Andrew Romanoff (D) has a clear shot in the primary to face Rep. Mike Coffman (R-Colo.) after state Rep. Karen Middleton (D) opted not to run. 
 
 Democrats also landed an opponent for Rep. Tom Latham (R-Iowa), who is considering a run for Senate in a swing district. 
 
 A new memo from the National Republican Senatorial Committee makes a pre-SOTU point we’ve made before: that President Obama’s more liberal tack could hurt Democratic senators running for reelection in red states. 
 
 Must-reads: 
 
 “New Rove Group Could Backfire on G.O.P.” — Nate Silver, New York Times 
 
 “Obama Prepares To Screw His Base” — Ben Smith, BuzzFeed 
 
 “Gauging the probability of success for Obama’s agenda post-State of the Union” — Zachary A. Goldfarb, Washington Post ||||| Europeans who settled America gave their lives a slingshot shape. They pulled back so they could shoot forward. They volunteered to live in harsh conditions today so their descendants could live well for centuries. The pioneers who traveled West did the same thing. So has each generation of immigrants — sacrificing the present for the sake of the future. 
 
 This slingshot manner of life led to one of those true national clichés: that America is the nation of futurity, that Americans organize their lives around romantic visions of what is to be. 
 
 In 1775, Sam Adams confidently predicted that the scraggly little colonies would one day be the world’s most powerful nation. In 1800, Noah Webster projected that the U.S. would someday have 300 million citizens, and that a country that big should have its own dictionary. 
 
 In his novel, “Giants in the Earth,” Ole Rolvaag has a pioneering farmer give a visitor a tour of his land. The farmer describes his beautiful home and his large buildings. The visitor confesses that he can’t see them. That’s because they haven’t been built yet, the farmer acknowledges, but they already exist as reality in his mind. 
 
 This future-oriented mentality had practical effects. For decades, government invested heavily in long-range projects like railroads and canals. 
 
 Today, Americans have inverted this way of thinking. Instead of sacrificing the present for the sake of the future, Americans now sacrifice the future for the sake of the present. 
 
 Federal spending is the most obvious example. The federal government is a machine that takes money from future earners and spends it on health care for retirees. Entitlement spending hurts the young in two ways. It squeezes government investment programs that boost future growth. Second, the young will have to pay the money back. To cover current obligations, according to the International Monetary Fund, young people will have to pay 35 percent more taxes and receive 35 percent fewer benefits. 
 
 But government is not the only place you can see signs of this present-ism. Business has slipped into this pattern, too. C.E.O.’s serve short stints and their main incentive is to make quarterly numbers, not to build for the long term. 
 
 Banks can lend money in two ways. They can lend to fund investments or they can lend to fund real estate purchases and other consumption. In 1982, banks were lending out 80 cents for investments for every $1 they were lending for consumption. By 2011, they lent only 30 cents to fund investments for every $1 of consumption. 
 
 As Robert D. Atkinson and Stephen J. Ezell note in their book “Innovation Economics,” American firms are also lagging in their commitment to research and development. Between 1999 and 2006, for example, German firms increased research-and-development spending by 11 percent, Finnish firms by 28 percent and South Korean firms by 58 percent. During that same period, U.S. spending increased by a paltry 3 percent. 
 
 Increasingly, companies have to spend their money on retirees, not future growth. Last week, for example, Ford announced that it was spending $5 billion to shore up its pension program. That’s an amount nearly equal to Ford’s investments in factories, equipment and innovation. 
 
 Why have Americans lost their devotion to the future? Part of the answer must be cultural. The Great Depression and World War II forced Americans to live with 16 straight years of scarcity. In the years after the war, people decided they’d had enough. There was what one historian called a “renunciation of renunciation.” We’ve now had a few generations raised with this consumption mind-set. There’s less of a sense that life is a partnership among the dead, the living and the unborn, with obligations to those to come. 
 
 The political debate, though, is largely oblivious to this mental shift. Republicans and Democrats are so busy arguing about the merits of government versus business that they are blind to the problem that afflicts them both. 
 
 In his State of the Union address Tuesday night, President Obama is apparently planning to give us yet another salvo in that left-right war, as he did in his second Inaugural Address. One of his aides, in a fit of hubris, told Politico that the president will be offering Republicans a golden bridge to ease their retreat. 
 
 But it would be great if Obama gave an imaginative speech that reframed things as present versus future. 
 
 If the president were to propose an agenda for the future, he’d double spending on the National Institutes of Health. He’d approve the Keystone XL pipeline. He’d cut corporate tax rates while adding a progressive consumption tax. He’d take money from Social Security and build Harlem Children’s Zone-type projects across the nation. He’d means test Medicare and use the money to revive state universities and pay down debt. 
 
 Would Americans buy that agenda? Maybe. Americans are neglecting the future, but I bet they’re still in love with it. ||||| Story highlights Julian Zelizer: Obama delivers first State of the Union of second term 
 
 He says it's an opportunity for president to sketch a broad vision for U.S. 
 
 Speech comes at a time of continuing economic troubles in America, he says 
 
 Zelizer: Obama can follow in the footsteps of FDR and LBJ 
 
 President Obama is set to deliver the first State of the Union Address of his new term. On Tuesday evening, he will step before a joint session of Congress and a nation in difficult times. 
 
 Unemployment rose in January to 7.9%. There are signs of economic progress, but millions of Americans are struggling to find a job while others are desperate to keep the one they have. 
 
 Other kinds of economic challenges face many people. The Pew Research Center recently released a study showing the growing number of adults who are struggling to support grown children and their parents, the "Sandwich Generation" as they are called. 
 
 The economy is just the tip of the iceberg. The issue of immigration needs to be resolved soon. Too many immigrants live in a state of constant uncertainty about their future, or that of their children. The tensions in this debate are heightened by the fact that state and local governments are struggling to find enough revenue to pay for crucial services such as education. 
 
 Julian Zelizer 
 
 The climate also remains in peril, as the wild weather patterns of the past year have shown. At the same time, Americans are still reeling from the deadly shooting incidents that have caused horrible bloodshed in movie theaters and schools and waiting to see what Washington does, or does not do, about guns. Then there are the countless foreign policy challenges we face. 
 
 The State of the Union address gives President Obama a prime opportunity to lay out what he intends to do in the year ahead to guide the nation through these difficult challenges. Although there are limits to how much these speeches can change public opinion, especially in an age of partisan polarization where large segments of the electorate are hard to move, it still is a vital moment where he can help shape the agenda for the coming year and outline some key themes for public discussion. 
 
 John King: Speech may do little to change Washington 
 
 It may be tempting to list a series of measures Obama wants Congress to pass, but the president should use this speech to do something more than provide a laundry list, and the historical record offers some guidance about how. 
 
 The speech can offer a vision. In 1941, President Franklin Roosevelt gave one of the most historic State of the Union addresses when he outlined the Four Freedoms. He delivered his speech on the brink of America becoming involved in World War II. With Europe and Asia in the middle of a major military crisis, FDR defined the four freedoms that he believed should be the foundation of the international system: the freedom of speech and expression, the freedom to worship God, the freedom from want and, finally, the freedom from fear. 
 
 "That is no vision of a distant millennium. It is a definite basis for a kind of world attainable in our own time and generation," FDR said. "That kind of world is the very antithesis of the so-called new order of tyranny which the dictators seek to create with the crash of a bomb." The speech was inspirational and offered a moral blueprint for the United States, both in its efforts at home and abroad for decades to come. 
 
 If President Obama wants to sketch a set of legislative goals, he might look to President Johnson. In 1965, LBJ was fresh off his landslide victory against Arizona Sen. Barry Goldwater and he managed to outline a breathtaking agenda, offering proposals for government to expand its role in all walks of life, from education to health care to the environment. 
 
 JUST WATCHED Obama: Avoid sequester, pass small cuts Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Obama: Avoid sequester, pass small cuts 01:28 
 
 JUST WATCHED CNN Explains: The State of the Union Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN Explains: The State of the Union 02:23 
 
 This was all part of the Great Society, a vision that Johnson had outlined a few months earlier at the University of Michigan but which came to life during the State of the Union address. "The Great Society asks not how much," Johnson said, "but how good; not only how to create wealth but how to use it; not only how fast we are going, but where we are headed." 
 
 Sometimes the State of the Union address can be an opportunity for a president to take a risk, to set out an objective for the nation that might be controversial or might look impossible at the time, but which challenges Congress and the citizens to repair broken parts of society. 
 
 In 1862, President Abraham Lincoln, with America in the Civil War, insisted that the freedom of the slave was essential to the restoration of the union. "We—even we here—hold the power, and bear the responsibility. In giving freedom to the slave, we assure freedom to the free—honorable alike in what we give, and what we preserve." 
 
 The speech can also be a moment for honesty. One speech that often receives attention in top 10 lists is President Gerald Ford's State of the Union address in 1975. Ford is an unlikely candidate for any historic list, as he took over from Richard Nixon after his resignation and wouldn't be re-elected in 1976. 
 
 Ford governed in difficult economic times -- the nation was hit by the twin shock of inflation and unemployment, which came to be known as stagflation. When Ford went on the air, he was brutally honest. The state of the nation, he said, "is not good." 
 
 Ford proceeded to outline what Americans were facing. "Millions of Americans are out of work. Recession and inflation are eroding the money of millions more. Prices are too high, and sales are too slow." 
 
 While presidents usually like to use these speeches to make Americans feel good about where they are, President Obama might think about speaking straight to a nation frustrated with a new normal of stagnant growth, where politicians talk about economic improvement even as the workforce continually struggles with high rates of unemployment and economic insecurity. 
 
 While Americans want a leader who can point a path forward, they also want to know that the person in the White House truly understands the pain many are suffering. 
 
 In his first State of the Union address, delivered in January 2010, President Obama stressed his promise to help the middle class and to fix the broken political process in Washington. "We face a deficit of trust," he said. 
 
 In his second address, delivered after the Republicans had taken over the House and in the wake of the horrific shooting of Rep. Gabby Giffords, President Obama again appealed to the desire for unity. He also called on Congress to support a legislative package that would allow the United States to regain its competitive edge. 
 
 In January 2012, Obama, highlighted the differences between the parties—the choice Americans would face in the upcoming election--by calling on Congress to support investments in education, infrastructure and clean energy. He warned that growing economic inequality threatened the future of the middle class. "We can either settle for a country where a shrinking number of people do really well," he said, "while a growing number of Americans barely get by or we can restore an economy where everyone gets a fair shot, everyone does their fair share and everyone plays by the same set of rules." 
 
 This time around, the president should think big, not necessarily about how much he wants to propose, but about the vision and ideas he wants to put forth to move the United States forward. 
 
 Follow @CNNOpinion on Twitter. 
 
 Join us at Facebook/CNNOpinion.