Source: Multi-News

Claims that US diplomats suffered mysterious brain injuries after being targeted with a secret weapon in Cuba have been challenged by neurologists and other brain specialists. 
 
 A medical report commissioned by the US government, published in March, found that staff at the US embassy in Havana suffered concussion-like brain damage after hearing strange noises in homes and hotels, but doctors from the US, the UK and Germany have contested the conclusions. 
 
 
 
 In four separate letters to the Journal of the American Medical Association, which published the original medical study, groups of doctors specialising in neurology, neuropsychiatry and neuropsychology described what they believed were major flaws in the study. 
 
 
 
 Cuba says 'undefined sounds' at home left US embassy official feeling ill Read more 
 
 Among the criticisms, published on Tuesday, are that the University of Pennsylvania team which assessed the diplomats misinterpreted test results, overlooked common disorders that might have made the workers feel sick, or dismissed psychological explanations for their symptoms. Doctors at the University of Pennsylvania defended their report in a formal response in the journal, but the specialists told the Guardian they stood by their criticisms. 
 
 The US withdrew more than half of its Havana diplomats last year and expelled 15 Cubans after 24 embassy staff and family reported a bizarre list of symptoms, ranging from headaches, dizziness and difficulties in sleeping, to problems with concentration, balance, vision and hearing. Many said their symptoms developed after they heard strange noises, described as cicada-like chirps, grinding, or the buffeting caused by an open window in the car. 
 
 The accounts led Washington to claim the diplomats had been victims of “acoustic attacks”, though an FBI investigation found no evidence that sonic weapons were involved. Physicists have voiced doubts that such weapons were even feasible. 
 
 At the request of the US government, doctors at the University of Pennsylvania ran checks on 21 diplomats and investigated six with a further 37 tests. Led by Doug Smith, the director of the university’s centre for brain injury, the team concluded that the patients had concussion-like injuries caused by damage to “widespread brain networks”. The state department now cites the medical report on its travel advice pages and urges people to reconsider visiting Cuba. 
 
 The doctors who contacted the journal disagreed with the diagnosis. Robert Shura, a board-certified clinical neuropsychologist at Salisbury veterans affairs medical centre in North Carolina, and two colleagues, said Smith’s team had misinterpreted cognitive tests performed on the diplomats. 
 
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest Doctors said Smith’s team too easily dismissed functional neurological disorders such as “acoustic shock”, which affects telephone operators who hear sudden loud noises in their headsets. Photograph: Lauren Hurley/PA 
 
 It is standard practice to compare people’s scores on such tests with others in the population. A score in the bottom 5% would typically mean there is a problem. But Shura pointed out that the diplomats were found to be “impaired” if they scored in the bottom 40% in any one of the tests. In their letter, the doctors said it was “inappropriate” to conclude that any of the patients were impaired. “It is more likely than not that all six of the patients whose data are reported had normal neuropsychological profiles,” Shura told the Guardian. Other specialists have published the same criticism. 
 
 
 
 In another letter, doctors including Gerard Gianoli from the Ear and Balance Institute in Louisiana argued that the test results pointed to inner ear damage rather than concussion and called for more thorough testing. “Given that almost all of the patients complained of hearing loss and balance problems, I am extremely suspicious of an inner ear insult in this group of patients,” Gianoli said. “I do wish they would be more thoroughly evaluated.” 
 
 Cuba ‘sonic attack’ conspiracy theories and flawed science | Letter Read more 
 
 In a third letter to the journal, Jon Stone, a consultant neurologist, and Alan Carson, a consultant neuropsychiatrist, both at the University of Edinburgh, argue with Stoyan Popkirov, a neurologist in Bochum, that Smith’s team too easily dismissed so-called functional neurological disorders. These can be triggered by sudden noises which, combined with anxiety and heightened attention, lead to real and persistent neurological problems. 
 
 One such disorder is the “acoustic shock” that affects telephone operators who hear sudden loud noises in their headsets. “Functional neurological disorders are common genuine disorders that can affect anyone, including hardworking diplomatic staff,” the doctors wrote. 
 
 In a further letter, Robert Bartholomew, an Auckland-based expert on mass psychogenic illness, argued that Smith’s team failed to rule out a psychological explanation for the sickness affecting the diplomats. Mass psychogenic illness arises in stressful situations, but can start slowly and last for months and years, he wrote, and often features neurological symptoms. “There are several cases in the annals of mass psychogenic illness that parallel the audio perceptions and symptoms reported in the Cuban embassy subjects,” he said. 
 
 In response, the University of Pennsylvania team stood by their report, adding that they did not have room to give full details of every test they performed. More brain scans are underway in the hope that the images will “identify structural brain changes that may underlie the neurological manifestations”, they wrote. Smith did not respond to a request for comment. ||||| Ten scientists have published letters in the Journal of the American Medical Association criticizing the first medical review of the US diplomats in Cuba who were reportedly targets of a “sonic attack.” 
 
 In letters published by JAMA on Tuesday, the scientists complained that the authors of a February study in the journal failed to include “mass hysteria” as one of the possible causes of the symptoms that the diplomats reported. Such “mass psychological outbreaks” usually take place in high-stress environments, and all involved begin exhibiting the similar, real physical symptoms. 
 
 The critics also said the study’s authors did not include information on whether the diplomats had known one another, and included no testing on hearing and balance — even though “a presumed sonic weapon attack would affect the inner ear more preferentially than any other part of the body, including the brain.” The inner ear is critical to balance. 
 
 The letters are the latest broadside in what has become a contentious scientific battle that has raged since the Trump administration first used the reports of “sonic attacks” on diplomats in Cuba to justify withdrawing diplomats from the island, expelling Cuban diplomats from Washington, cutting back on contacts between the United States and Cuba, and advising US citizens not to travel to the island. 
 
 Some scientists challenged the State Department’s assertions that some sort of sonic attack was responsible for the vague symptoms diplomats complained of, including hearing loss and cloudy thinking, and the US government eventually stopped using the word “attack” to describe what took place. But the US also declared that Havana was too dangerous to allow diplomats’ families to live there. 
 
 The February JAMA article was touted as the first scientific assessment of the evidence. In it, University of Pennsylvania researchers ruled out a sonic attack, neurological illness from a tropical virus, or poisoning as possible explanations. Rather, the 21 individuals they examined showed a “constellation” of symptoms that suggested concussions, without the head trauma. “If you didn’t know their history, they would look to you like other concussion patients,” the study’s lead author, Randel Swanson, told BuzzFeed News at the time. 
 
 The study also said they displayed cognitive dysfunction and abnormalities. 
 
 The letters published Tuesday were all critical of the authors’ conclusions. Written by physicians and researchers from a variety of states and nations, the letters questioned the assessment, saying the authors had not done critical tests and had improperly interpreted the results of cognitive tests. Crucially, according to one expert, the Penn team had failed to consider evidence that the illness could be a form of a mass psychological outbreak — for which there is no immediate external cause. 
 
 Robert Bartholomew, an American-born medical sociologist at Botany Downs Secondary College in New Zealand, and a main proponent of the idea that diplomats were or are suffering a psychological outbreak, argued that the authors of the study were unduly dismissive of “mass psychogenic illness,” also known as “mass hysteria,” because there was no rapid onset and recovery. “However,” Bartholomew wrote, “the second most common type of mass psychogenic illness begins slowly and persists for months or years and often features neurological symptoms.” 
 
 Bartholomew also criticized the study’s lack of “social network analysis” — determining whether patients actually knew one another. For a mass psychological outbreak to occur, the individuals involved would have needed to know one another; the study notes that some of the individuals involved did not know one another. 
 
 But Bartholomew said relying on the patients for that information was inadequate since the study took place 203 days after the first victims reported their symptoms. They may have misremembered contacts, or, he argues, the patients didn’t actually need to know one another personally. They only needed to know others were ill. 
 
 Earlier this year, a US government employee in China reported similar symptoms, and US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the two cases were “very similar and entirely consistent.” 
 
 Other scientists and doctors — from Edinburgh, UK; Bochum, Germany; Salisbury, North Carolina; Denver, Colorado; Covington, Louisiana; and New Brunswick, New Jersey — wrote in too. 
 
 Gerard Gianoli and James Soileau of the Ear and Balance Institute in Covington, joined by P. Ashley Wackym of Rutgers University's Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, noted that the study didn’t include testing on hearing and balance, even though “a presumed sonic weapon attack would affect the inner ear more preferentially than any other part of the body, including the brain.” 
 
 Robert Shura and Holly Miska of the Salisbury Veterans Affairs Medical Center and Jason Kacmarski of the Veterans Affairs Eastern Colorado Health Care System criticized the study for what they said was its “improper interpretation of objective cognitive test results.” They write that the University of Pennsylvania researchers chose a more “liberal cutoff” to define impairment than would normally be used in research settings. Their conclusion that the patients “had significant areas of cognitive weakness and/or impairment,” they write, is based on a “misapplication of common interpretive classification systems.” 
 
 The letters also challenged the idea that a disorder or mass psychogenic illness is somehow less real or more the fault of the individuals involved than, say, a concussion. “Although diagnostic caution is warranted, functional neurological disorders are common genuine disorders that can affect anyone,” wrote Jon Stone and Alan Carson of Edinburgh and Stoyan Popkirov of Bochum, adding, “including hardworking diplomatic staff.” 
 
 In a response published in JAMA immediately below the letters, the University of Pennsylvania team defended its work, writing that the chronic symptoms they found “are entirely different” from those seen in mass psychogenic disorders. They also said they “must continue to withhold certain sensitive information,” although they do not say why and do admit the US State Department cleared the study as a public health matter. 
 
 The US government has sent FBI agents to Cuba to study the illness, but has yet to reach a conclusion on its cause. In July, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention joined the investigation into what injured the diplomats. 
 
 The Cuban Embassy in Washington did not immediately reply to request for comment. The American Foreign Service Association, which represents US diplomats, would not comment prior to publication of the letters, which they had not seen. JAMA declined to comment on why the criticism was published six months after the study, or whether the US government pressured it into publishing the study in the first place.