Source: Multi-News

We're halfway through one of the least-deadly years in recent Chicago homicide history, but here's a reminder that summer is just getting started: at least 41 were shot and 7 killed in Chicago this weekend. And while city gun violence typically doesn't get as much attention as other mass shootings, especially in more affluent neighborhoods, the Chicago story fits into the bigger national conversation on gun control, just slightly more than six months after the Newtown shootings shook the issue into the spotlight. 
 
 This weekend was the most violent so far in the city, but not the most deadly: eight died in Chicago during the last weekend in January. The Chicago Tribune has a sweeping feature report on the weekend's toll on the city. Victims this weekend include Kevin Rivera, a 16-year-old who tried to flee gunmen on his bike; Ricardo Herrera, 21; Todd Wood, 40, who was killed in a mass shooting at a club (two others were wounded); Cortez Wilberton, 31; Jamal Jones, 19; and Antwon Johnson, 24, who was shot by police: 
 
 "[Johnson was shot] after he raised a 9-millimeter handgun in their direction after bailing from a moving car and falling, police said. His mother disputed that account. “It’s not true,” said Stacy Liberty. “How could someone have a gun and point it to you if they’re already on the ground?” Liberty said the car had been lurching down the block because the people in the car were trying to identify an address. The presence of a police car behind them must have made Johnson nervous, his mother said." 
 
 Liberty told the Tribune that Johnson had a record, but "hasn’t been in trouble in a while." His job search was struggling because of his criminal record, she added. 
 
 What's perhaps most striking about the Tribune report is the amount of residue from the violence still left on the streets, which they describe as "literally stained:" 
 
 "In the city’s Little Village neighborhood, 15 lit memorial candles stood in blood...About five miles away, a long trail of blood remained splattered in a Northwest Side alley — and on the bumper of a nearby car — where 16-year-old Kevin Rivera tried to run from a gunman on a bicycle, authorities told the Tribune." 
 
 And when Jamal Jones's family went to the scene where the 19-year-old was shot, they found his bike still there, along with needles left behind from the paramedics. 
 
 As of last week, Chicago's murder rate was down 34 percent, the Chicago Sun-Times noted. When the Tribune asked authorities about this weekend's numbers, they cited the overall lower crime rates as evidence that their strategy is working. 
 
 Update: Adding to the grisly total, late Sunday the police killed a 15-year-old. 
 
 Want to add to this story? Let us know in comments or send an email to the author at aohlheiser at gmail dot com. You can share ideas for stories on the Open Wire. 
 
 Abby Ohlheiser ||||| 6 dead, at least 41 injured in city’s most violent weekend in 2013 BY MITCH DUDEK Staff Reporter mdudek@suntimes.com 
 
 24887084 
 
 Updated: 
 
 The most violent weekend in Chicago this year left at least 41 people injured and six others dead from gunfire. 
 
 Those killed ranged in age from 16 to 40. 
 
 “I had a family from my parish tell me recently that their 10-year-old son didn’t want to come back to Chicago from vacation because of the violence,” said Rev. Michael Pfleger, pastor of St. Sabina Catholic Church in Englewood, which is about a mile from the site of one of the shootings. 
 
 Friends and family gathered Sunday outside the Humboldt Park home of Kevin Rivera to sign a poster and light candles to remember the 16-year-old. He was killed late Saturday when a gunman on a bicycle shot Rivera as he walked in an alley not far from his home on the 1500 block of North Keystone. He collapsed down the block from where he was shot about 11:45 p.m. 
 
 Earlier Saturday, about 10:50 p.m., Ricardo Herrera, 21, was killed and two others were wounded in a shooting in the Little Village neighborhood when a gunman opened fire in the 2500 block of South Ridgeway Avenue. Herrera, of the 2400 block of South Marshall Boulevard, was dead at the scene. 
 
 A few minutes after midnight Sunday, 40-year-old Todd Wood, of the 8100 block of South St. Lawrence Avenue, was killed and three others were wounded when a gunman walked up to the open door of the club in the 900 block of East 79th Street in the Chatham neighborhood and opened fire. The men had argued outside the club before the attack. 
 
 About an hour later, Jamal Jones, 19, was discovered on a sidewalk in the 7400 block of South Parnell Avenue with gunshot wounds to the shoulder and chest, police said. Jones, of the 8800 block of South Yale Avenue, died about an hour later at Advocate Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn. 
 
 Cortez Wilberton, 31, of the 200 block of South Lavergne Avenue, was fatally shot about 1:30 a.m. Sunday. The shooting happened in the 200 block of South Keeler Avenue in the West Garfield Park neighborhood. A woman was also grazed in the cheek. 
 
 The first homicide of the weekend happened about 11 p.m. Friday in the 5500 block of West Quincy Street in the Austin neighborhood when McGregory Porter, 24, was fatally shot in the eye and another man was shot in the abdomen during an altercation, authorities said. 
 
 Overall the number of homicides is down this year when compared to the same time last year. The decline has prompted Mayor Rahm Emanuel and police Supt. Garry McCarthy to tout the effectiveness of revamped police tactics. 
 
 While acknowledging the extent of the weekend bloodshed, police spokesman Adam Collins noted in an email that the same weekend last year had more shootings. 
 
 “While we’ve had fewer murders to date this year than any year since the mid-1960s, there’s more work to be done and we won’t rest until everyone in Chicago enjoys the same sense of safety,” Collins wrote. ||||| Chicago Tribune reporter Adam Sege recaps the night's crime, including a police involved shooting that left a 15-year-old boy dead. (Posted Monday, June 17, 2013) 
 
 As she headed out the door Sunday morning, Adrianne Wilberton put on a brave face. It was time to tell her son the news, and she didn't want him hearing it from anyone else. 
 
 But her composure unraveled as she walked toward the car, a barrage of neighbors hugging her on the way out of her apartment. By the time she reached the front lawn, the mother of six was in tears. 
 
 "Our son is dead! Oh Jesus!" the 57-year-old screamed, referring to Cortez, one of her three sons, who was killed earlier that morning on Chicago's West Side. "Oh my God! Oh my God! We were just talking." 
 
 At least 34 people were shot — nine of them fatally — Saturday afternoon through Father's Day Sunday, stretching from 94th Street and Loomis Avenue on the South Side up to about North Avenue and North Pulaski Road on the Northwest Side, according to authorities. The youngest person killed during one of the bloodiest weekends in Chicago this year, 15-year-old Michael Westley, was fatally shot by a police officer Sunday night. 
 
 Shootings from Friday afternoon into Saturday left another 13 people shot, 1 fatally. The combined tally resulted in 47 people shot, and eight killed this weekend. Last year at about the same time, there were 53 people shot, nine fatally in one weekend. 
 
 The rash of violent crime came as Chicago has seen a large dip in overall homicide and shooting numbers so far this year. 
 
 When asked whether this weekend's shooting numbers cast doubt on the department's crime-fighting strategies, Chicago police spokesman Adam Collins insisted they are working, noting the city has so far in 2013 posted its lowest homicide totals in years. 
 
 Collins also reiterated a position that police Superintendent Garry McCarthy has expressed publicly throughout the year when discussing the department's crime-fighting efforts. "There's going to be good days, and there's going to be bad days, which is why we've been calling this progress, not victory," said Collins, who pointed out drops in overall crime. 
 
 Across the city, reminders of the bloody weekend literally stained some of Chicago's streets. In the city's Little Village neighborhood, 15 lit memorial candles stood in blood where Ricardo Herrera, 21, was fatally wounded and two others shot on the 2500 block of South Ridgeway Avenue. 
 
 About five miles away, a long trail of blood remained splattered in a Northwest Side alley — and on the bumper of a nearby car — where 16-year-old Kevin Rivera tried to run from a gunman on a bicycle, authorities told the Tribune. 
 
 Rivera's family was planning to move in two weeks from their sometimes violent section of the West Humboldt Park neighborhood and a social worker was enrolling the teenager in the city's summer jobs program. 
 
 But late Saturday night, someone shot Rivera in the 4100 block of West North Avenue, police said. He attempted to run but collapsed a few feet away. The boy, who lived a few blocks away from the scene, was pronounced dead about 1:35 a.m. Sunday at Advocate Illinois Masonic Medical Center, authorities said. 
 
 Grief-stricken and exhausted, Kevin Rivera's family said little about Rivera or his death. "I can't believe it," said Rivera's mother, Maria Figueroa. 
 
 One of six siblings, Rivera could be polite and soft-spoken at home, even as he became increasingly embroiled in neighborhood gang conflicts and faced juvenile court charges. Last year, he was shot in the leg, and he was briefly detained in the Cook County Juvenile Temporary Detention Center and placed on juvenile court probation for carrying an unloaded gun in the neighborhood, according to interviews with relatives. 
 
 His younger sister Yajaira Rivera last year was profiled in a Tribune investigation about elementary students who missed months of school each year. Rivera also missed weeks of school each year at Nobel Elementary School, where he earned an A in 7th grade art class but failed basic courses and had run-ins with teachers and staff, school records and interviews show. 
 
 In a brief Tribune interview last year, Rivera said he had tried to register at Orr Academy High School, but left after a couple of days because he didn't feel safe there. "There is a lot of tension," he said. 
 
 Social worker Emily Runyan, who lived in the neighborhood and befriended Rivera's family, was recently working to enroll Rivera in the city's One Summer Chicago teen jobs program. 
 
 "I don't want to memorialize him because he made some bad choices, but Kevin was a kind, quiet and sensitive kid," Runyan said. "I truly believe he wanted more for his life, but was a victim of many things." 
 
 One of the men killed — 24-year-old Antwon Johnson — was shot by police early Sunday in the Lawndale neighborhood after he raised a 9-millimeter handgun in their direction after bailing from a moving car and falling, police said. 
 
 His mother disputed that account. "It's not true," said Stacy Liberty. "How could someone have a gun and point it to you if they're already on the ground?" 
 
 Liberty said the car had been lurching down the block because the people in the car were trying to identify an address. The presence of a police car behind them must have made Johnson nervous, his mother said. 
 
 Johnson had been convicted three times for drug related charges stemming back to 2006, according to court records. He suffered three gunshot wounds almost two years ago, she said. 
 
 But the father of two five-year-old sons was trying to get his life back on track, she said. 
 
 "He hasn’t been in trouble in a while," said Liberty, who rushed to the scene and recalled seeing her son's lifeless body in the alley. "He was trying to get his stuff together. Black men on the street today, it's tough for them to get a job because the first thing (employers) look at is their record." 
 
 Another victim included 40-year-old Todd Wood, who authorities said was killed after a gunman opened fire at a club in the city's Grand Crossing neighborhood. Three others were wounded in that attack, police said. 
 
 Several hours after the club shooting, Cortez Wilberton, 31, was added to the homicide list. Wilberton had seen plenty of his friends shot over the year, but hit a turning point a few years back when his best friend was killed, his sister said. A former gang member, Wilberton had a lengthy criminal record that included at least 30 arrests, according to court records. 
 
 "That's when he said, 'That's enough of this here … I don't want to be bothered by all this nonsense,' " said his sister, Tanya Wilberton, 37. 
 
 So he left the gang and started focusing all of his energy on his three children, one of whom was born earlier this month, she said. He liked to take his children — two girls and a boy — to the park and watch the older ones ride their bikes, his mother and sister said. 
 
 Sometime early last year, Wilberton was shot in the stomach during a robbery and had to leave his a job as a security guard at a local store, his sister said. 
 
 Still recovering from reconstructive surgery, he mostly stayed indoors at night but was gunned down at 1:35 a.m. on the 200 block of South Keeler Avenue in the Austin neighborhood. A 31-year-old woman also suffered a graze wound to the face in that incident, police said. 
 
 Around the time Wilberton's family gathered Sunday morning to mourn, Karen Sumner received a call at work telling her to hurry home because police officers wanted to talk about her 19-year-old son. 
 
 "I hope my son's not dead," Sumner remembers saying. "Please, I hope my son's not dead." 
 
 But when she arrived at the family's West Chatham home, officers delivered the news she feared most. 
 
 Her son, Jamal Jones, was shot at about 1:15 a.m. Sunday while riding his bike home from a family member's house through the 7400 block of South Parnell Avenue in the Englewood neighborhood, police and relatives said. He died about an hour later. 
 
 Jones was a friendly, motivated young man who steered away from trouble and was always eager to work, according to relatives. He'd sometimes peddle bottled water to passing cars on 79th Street when he couldn't find construction work, his mother said. 
 
 Jones' uncle, Travis Sumner, said his nephew was a reliable member of his roofing crew. Jones worked as the ground man, picking up trash and making sure supplies got up to the laborers on the roof. 
 
 "He worked hard," the uncle said. "He stayed busy all the time." 
 
 On Sunday afternoon, family members returned to the shooting scene. They found the bike Jones had been riding and needles left over from the paramedics. 
 
 As she recalled getting ready for her job at Jewel-Osco on Sunday morning, Karen Sumner said it was odd that her son wasn't there to say goodbye when she left the house at 3:30 a.m. At that time, she still hadn't heard the news. 
 
 "He would always greet me at the door and kiss me and say 'I love you,' " Karen Sumner said on Sunday. "This morning, he didn’t greet me." 
 
 By Monday morning the toll had grown by another fatality when Alexander Lagunas, 18, was pronounced dead at 10:08 a.m. at Mount Sinai, according to the Cook County medical examiner's office. 
 
 Lagunas, of the 8100 block of South Scottsdale was shot on the 4000 block of West 31st Street at 12:31 a.m. Sunday morning, according to police. 
 
 Tribune reporters Jeremy Gorner, Carlos Sadovi, Kim Geiger, Deanese Williams-Harris and Adam Sege contributed. 
 
 pnickeas@tribune.com 
 
 dyjackson@tribune.com 
 
 mitsmith@tribune.com 
 
 jmdelgado@tribune.com