Source: Multi-News

The witness who was with Kim and Huang stated that both individuals had taken LSD earlier in the evening, and at some point Huang began to act very strange, becoming aggressive, removing his clothing and he began to destroy the apartment. 
 
 Police blotter for Hunterdon, Somerset and parts of Union counties. File photo webart, police, crime, cops, drugs (Photo: Getty Images ) Story Highlights Kim and another witness identified Kevin Huang, 22-year-old city man and Rutgers University student, as the suspect who stabbed Kim inside the Sicard Street residence. 
 
 The witness who was with Kim and Huang stated that both individuals had taken LSD earlier in the evening 
 
 As officers secured Huang's apartment and took him into custody, they observed large quantities of drugs and paraphernalia about the apartment. 
 
 NEW BRUNSWICK - City patrol officers found Andrew Kim, 23-year-old Rutgers University student, outside a Sicard Street home bleeding profusely from the neck on Saturday morning at about 1:20 a.m. 
 
 Kim and another witness identified Kevin Huang, 22-year-old city man and Rutgers University student, as the suspect who stabbed Kim inside the Sicard Street residence. Officers quickly located Kevin Huang on the second floor of the Sicard Street home, naked and pacing back and forth. Huang was taken into custody while Kim was transported to Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital where he was treated for his injuries. 
 
 The witness who was with Kim and Huang stated that both individuals had taken LSD earlier in the evening, and at some point Huang began to act very strange, becoming aggressive, removing his clothing, and he began to destroy the apartment. The witness left the apartment to find help, and when returning, found Kim fleeing the apartment, bleeding from the neck. 
 
 As officers secured Huang's apartment and took him into custody, they observed large quantities of drugs and paraphernalia about the apartment. A subsequent search warrant uncovered approximately 15 pounds of marijuana, approximately 500 bars of Xanax, a significant amount of cocaine, other unidentified pills and crystals, packaging materials consistent with drug distribution and a significant amount of cash. 
 
 Huang is charged with Attempted Murder, Possession of a Weapon for an Unlawful Purpose, Unlawful Possession of a Weapon, and a series of narcotic-related offenses including possession, distribution and distribution in a school zone. 
 
 This investigation continues as detectives investigate the events which led up to the assault and the scope of the narcotic activity. Anyone with information is asked to contact Detective Drew Weiss at 732-745-5217. 
 
 Read or Share this story: http://mycj.co/1bEXM3j ||||| NEW BRUNSWICK — A Rutgers University student allegedly stabbed a fellow student in the neck after they both took LSD, police said. 
 
 Kevin Huang, 22, allegedly stabbed a 23-year-old man at Huang's apartment on Sicard Street early Saturday morning. Police said they found a large quantity of drugs, including several pounds of marijuana, after they searched the apartment. 
 
 Police said that Huang and the victim were both on LSD early this morning when Huang allegedly started to act "very strange," stripping his clothes off and destroying the apartment. 
 
 A witness left the apartment to get help, and upon returning found the victim trying to flee the apartment and bleeding profusely from the neck. 
 
 Officers who responded to the scene allegedly found Huang "naked and pacing back and forth," plus a bounty of drugs, including 15 pounds of marijuana, 500 bars of Xanax, a large quantity of cocaine, and materials consistent with distribution, police said. 
 
 Huang, of New Brunswick, was charged with attempted murder, weapons charges, drug possession, distribution and distribution in a school zone. 
 
 The victim, who has not been charged with a crime, was taken to Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital and treated for his injuries, police said. Police said his injuries were not life threatening, and a hospital spokesman said he was in serious condition. The victim did not live at the Sicard Street home with Huang, according to police. 
 
 Police said their investigation is continuing, and that anyone with information can contact Detective Drew Weiss at (732) 745-5217. 
 
 Brian Amaral may be reached at bamaral@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @bamaral44. Find NJ.com on Facebook.