Source: Multi-News

Fox News host Gretchen Carlson stunned pretty much everyone Tuesday when she told viewers that she supports reinstating the assault weapons ban. On Wednesday, Carlson revealed that Fox viewers viciously attacked her with “tons of f-bombs” for the heresy, reading some of the tamer responses on the air. Despite the fallout, Carlson stuck to her guns, as it were, telling viewers that it’s time to “get real” and address the gun side of the mass shooting equation, and calling out the “intolerance” of her critics: 
 
 Maybe it’s time for more of us to start getting real and try to come together to actually get things done. 
 
 Whatever you think of Gretchen Carlson’s previous work, she showed true courage in bucking the conservative orthodoxy of her audience in the first place, but standing by that position in the face of blistering, perhaps career-damaging fallout from her viewers shows either a willingness to put principle above personal gain, or an underestimation of the potential of that fallout. 
 
 There’s some good news for Carlson, though. After dipping to a historic low in December, support for an assault weapons ban has now returned to its previous consistent majority: 
 
 The survey, conducted in the days following the massacre at a popular Orlando gay night club, shows 57 percent of Americans now favor such a ban. That’s up from 44 percent in December, when the question was last asked in CBS News polling. Now, 38 percent of respondents oppose the legislation, compared to the 50 percent who opposed it in December. Most Democrats — 78 percent — support an assault weapons ban, while only 18 percent oppose it. Half of Republican respondents oppose a ban, but about 45 percent are in favor of it. Independents remain split: About 47 percent back the ban, while 45 percent do not. 
 
 That 45% of Republicans are a reason to hope. That’s not quite a silent majority, but it’s close. 
 
 This is an opinion piece. The views expressed in this article are those of just the author. ||||| It's such an honor to know that #BeFierceBook is helping so many women find their courage. Help someone in your life find theirs, too --> get your copy today: http://amzn.to/2zzT4AL ||||| Tweet with a location 
 
 You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more ||||| On Media Blog Archives Select Date… December, 2015 November, 2015 October, 2015 September, 2015 August, 2015 July, 2015 June, 2015 May, 2015 April, 2015 March, 2015 February, 2015 January, 2015 
 
 Getty 21st Century Fox launching 'internal review' at Fox News following Gretchen Carlson lawsuit 
 
 Fox News has launched an internal review of the behavior of CEO Roger Ailes and "Fox & Friends" co-host Steve Doocy, after one of Fox News Channel's top anchors filed a lawsuit against Ailes, alleging wrongful termination and sexual harassment. 
 
 The news of the lawsuit came in a bombshell email sent to reporters on Wednesday morning by the law firm representing Gretchen Carlson, the host of “The Real Story with Gretchen Carlson” and former co-host of the morning show "Fox & Friends." 
 
 According to the lawyers at Smith Mullin P.C., who are representing Carlson, her contract was terminated on June 23. Fox News did not publicly announce the contract termination, and Carlson said on her Twitter account at the time that she was on “on vacation”. 
 
 "I have strived to empower women and girls throughout my entire career,” Carlson said in a statement. “Although this was a difficult step to take, I had to stand up for myself and speak out for all women and the next generation of women in the workplace. I am extremely proud of my accomplishments at Fox News and for keeping our loyal viewers engaged and informed on events and news topics of the day.” 
 
 A spokesperson for 21st Century Fox released the following statement Wednesday afternoon: 
 
 "The Company has seen the allegations against Mr. Ailes and Mr. Doocy. We take these matters seriously. While we have full confidence in Mr. Ailes and Mr. Doocy, who have served the company brilliantly for over two decades, we have commenced an internal review of the matter." 
 
 Ailes released a statement Wednesday calling the lawsuit "defamatory" and "retaliatory." 
 
 “Gretchen Carlson’s allegations are false. This is a retaliatory suit for the network’s decision not to renew her contract, which was due to the fact that her disappointingly low ratings were dragging down the afternoon lineup" Ailes's statement said. "When Fox News did not commence any negotiations to renew her contract, Ms. Carlson became aware that her career with the network was likely over and conveniently began to pursue a lawsuit. Ironically, Fox News provided her with more on-air opportunities over her 11 year tenure than any other employer in the industry, for which she thanked me in her recent book. This defamatory lawsuit is not only offensive, it is wholly without merit and will be defended vigorously.” 
 
 The complaint was filed in the Superior Court of New Jersey and claims Ailes made “sexually-charged comments” to Carlson, "ranging from lewd innuendo, ogling and remarks about Ms. Carlson’s body to demands for sex as a way for her to improve her job standing." 
 
 “[D]uring a meeting last September in which Ms. Carlson complained about ongoing discriminatory and retaliatory treatment, Mr. Ailes stated, "I think you and I should have had a sexual relationship a long time ago and then you’d be good and better and I’d be good and better," adding that "sometimes problems are easier to solve' that way,” according to Carlson’s lawyers. 
 
 On other occasions, the complaint alleges Ailes asked Carlson to "turn around so he could view her posterior, commented repeatedly about her legs, and instructed her to wear certain outfits that he claimed enhanced her figure.” Ailes also allegedly “directed sexist comments” about Carlson in public and announced to others at a industry event that “he had slept with three former Miss Americas, but not with her.” 
 
 The complaint goes on to allege that Carlson was fired from “Fox & Friends” in 2013 because she complained about co-host Steve Doocy’s actions. Ailes, the complaint alleges, mocked Carlson and told her to stop being offended “so God damned easy.” Though she was moved to host her own show in the afternoon hour, the complaint alleges that the move was a demotion and that Ailes “reduced her compensation and withheld network support and promotion for her show.” 
 
 "We believe that the evidence will confirm that Gretchen was fired from ‘Fox & Friends’ for speaking up about demeaning and discriminatory behavior on and off the set,” Nancy Erika Smith, employment litigator at Smith Mullin P.C., who is representing Carlson, said in a statement. 
 
 Though the complaint was filed against Ailes, Doocy is also cited for alleged sexual harassment. 
 
 "Doocy engaged in a pattern and practice of severe and pervasive sexual harassment of Carlson, including, but no limited to, mocking her during commercial breaks, shunning her off air, refusing to engage with her on air, belittling her contributions to the show, and generally attempting to put her in her place by refusing to accept and treat her as an intelligent and insightful journalist rather than a blond (sic) female prop," the complaint alleges. 
 
 Carlson, a former Miss America (1989), joined Fox in 2005 after five years as a news correspondent and co-host of "The Saturday Early Show" on CBS. In her 2015 book "Getting Real", Carlson detailed several instances of sexual assault, starting from the beginning of her career, without naming any names. 
 
 “We believe that Mr. Ailes’ behavior toward Gretchen, as described in the complaint, speaks volumes about what she had to endure. The evidence will show that Ailes deliberately sabotaged the career of a talented, hard-working journalist and loyal Fox News employee. Opposing sexism and rejecting unwanted sexual come-ons should never cost a woman her job or subject her to disparagement and emotional anguish,” said Martin Hyman, a partner in the New York firm Golenbock Eiseman Assor Bell & Peskoe LLP, who, is co-counsel for Carlson. 
 
 The complaint seeks compensatory damages, damages for mental anguish, and punitive damages. 
 
 This story has been updated throughout...