Source: Multi-News

Skip Ad x Embed x Share San Francisco police are investigating the discovery of human body parts stuffed inside a suitcase on the sidewalk of a downtown street. Jillian Kitchener reports. 
 
 A San Francisco Police Department squad car on Jan. 27, 2015. (Photo: Chris Kievman for USA TODAY) 
 
 SAN FRANCISCO — Police responding to reports of a suspicious package in an up-and-coming area here Wednesday afternoon instead found something horrific — a suitcase containing human body parts. 
 
 The body was so mutilated that officers had to call the medical examiner in to determine if it was from a human being or an animal, police spokeswoman Grace Gatpandan said. 
 
 The race and gender of the person were unknown, she said. 
 
 The roller-type suitcase had been left next to a pile of garbage and debris at 11th and Market streets, Gatpandan said. 
 
 Police initially responded to a report of a suspicious package at 4:14 p.m. Wednesday. 
 
 The block was shut down as part of the investigation and remained shut down late Wednesday night, she said. 
 
 More remains were found in the surrounding blocks. "It is unclear at this time if all the remains belong to one victim," Gatpandan said. 
 
 Police had a "preliminary, distinct suspect description," but it wasn't being released as officers are "actively attempting to locate this particular person of interest," Gatpandan said. 
 
 Exactly when the suitcase was left in the area is under investigation. 
 
 The street is in a long-troubled area with large numbers of homeless people. It is also just a block from Twitter headquarters and part of an emerging tech corridor. 
 
 Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1K8IPAB ||||| Story highlights Police are looking for one suspect, talking with other people 
 
 Suitcase was found on sidewalk with other items 
 
 (CNN) Police answering a suspicious package call in San Francisco made a most unpleasant discovery when they opened a suitcase and found it contained human body parts. 
 
 The San Francisco medical examiner's office determined the parts were human remains and the body had been dismembered, Officer Grace Gatpandan said. 
 
 "We do have people of interest that homicide investigators are speaking to," she said. Detectives are also reviewing surveillance camera footage and officers are looking for a suspect. She declined to identify the suspect. 
 
 The suitcase was found Wednesday afternoon on 11th Street in the Mission District. Police closed four blocks while they investigated. 
 
 The Los Angeles Times reported that remains were also found at three locations within a three-block radius. Asked about the reporting, a police spokeswoman told CNN there are no updates. 
 
 There were other items around the suitcase, Gatpandan said. 
 
 The gender and age of the person were unclear, she said. ||||| Body parts found in suitcase, and nearby, in SoMa 
 
 
 
 
 
 window._taboola = window._taboola || []; _taboola.push({ mode: 'thumbnails-c', container: 'taboola-interstitial-gallery-thumbnails-3', placement: 'Interstitial Gallery Thumbnails 3', target_type: 'mix' }); _taboola.push({flush: true}); 
 
 Photo: Scott Strazzante / The Chronicle Image 1 of / 3 Caption Close Image 1 of 3 Buy photo San Francisco Police investigate a suitcase full of body parts found on 11th Street near Mission Street in San Francisco, Calif., on Wednesday, January 28, 2015. San Francisco Police investigate a suitcase full of body parts found on 11th Street near Mission Street in San Francisco, Calif., on Wednesday, January 28, 2015. Photo: Scott Strazzante / The Chronicle Buy this photo Image 2 of 3 Buy photo San Francisco police investigate a suitcase full of body parts found on 11th Street near Mission Street on Wednesday, January 28, 2015. San Francisco police investigate a suitcase full of body parts found on 11th Street near Mission Street on Wednesday, January 28, 2015. Photo: Scott Strazzante / Scott Strazzante / The Chronicle Buy this photo Image 3 of 3 Body parts found in suitcase, and nearby, in SoMa 1 / 3 Back to Gallery 
 
 San Francisco police discovered a suitcase full of body parts in the South of Market area on Wednesday night and then found more remains nearby, officials said. 
 
 The case is being treated as a homicide after police responded to a call of a suspicious package about 4:15 p.m. and found a roller-type suitcase amid garbage and debris on 11th Street between Market and Mission streets. It contained “dismembered body parts of a human being,” but the gender and race of the victim were not immediately known, said police spokeswoman Officer Grace Gatpandan. 
 
 After the grisly discovery, 11th Street was shut down and officers began a search of the area. They found more body parts, but they would not say what they were or where they were found. 
 
 Homicide detectives were at the scene and trying to recover surveillance footage from nearby businesses, Gatpandan said, and investigators had a rough suspect description, though she said police were not releasing it as the investigation was ongoing. 
 
 Mission and 11th streets remained closed late Wednesday as homicide detectives continued their probe. 
 
 “Investigators are still searching to determine if there are any other body parts in the area,” Gatpandan said. “This was an extremely gruesome crime scene.” 
 
 Kale Williams is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. E-mail: kwilliams@sfchronicle.com Twitter: @sfkale ||||| Dismembered human body parts were found Wednesday in a suitcase and scattered around a three-block radius in downtown San Francisco, police said. 
 
 Police responded about 4:15 p.m. to reports of a suspicious package on 11th Street between Market and Mission streets, said Officer Grace Gatpandan. 
 
 After opening the suitcase, officers found the body parts. On-scene staff from the San Francisco Medical Examiner's office confirmed that the remains were those of a human, Gatpandan said. 
 
 As investigators searched the city's South of Market neighborhood, human remains were found at three locations within a three block radius. 
 
 "There was one crime scene -- it was just very large," Gatpandan said. 
 
 Police could not confirm that all of the body parts belonged to one person. 
 
 Investigators have identified and are actively searching for a suspect wanted in connection with the dismembered body, but declined to release further details. 
 
 For breaking news in California, follow @MattHjourno.