Source: Multi-News

The former Facebook executive Chamath Palihapitiya has claimed that social media is “destroying how society works”. For two years, I have had a blog on Facebook that celebrates difference and encourages the building of community, and Palihapitiya’s characterisation of social media is not one I recognise. 
 
 So ubiquitous and influential has social media become that it is easy to forget that we are still in the early dawn of its age. When cars were as old as social media is now, there were no seatbelts, no airbags, no driving tests, and no breathalysers. Safety measures and design features that we take for granted were totally unimaginable. 
 
 The first pedestrian to be killed by a car in the UK, Bridget Driscoll, was killed by a car travelling at four miles per hour. Witnesses said she had frozen in front of the vehicle and seemed “bewildered”. 
 
 In 2017, we are no longer bewildered by cars travelling at four miles an hour. We have adapted to what was once new technology, and the road death rate in the UK continues to fall year after year, even as the number of cars on our roads continues to rise. Road deaths in 2016 were 1792 – less than a fifth of what they were in 1941, when deaths peaked at 9,169. 
 
 All new technologies are subject to cynicism. When umbrellas first arrived in the UK, users reported being abused and called “Frenchmen” in the street. But just as we got used to umbrellas and cars, there are now millions of people who are starting to develop ways to make social media the safe, empowering, life-enhancing tool that they believe it can be. 
 
 Mark Zuckerberg announces AR plans for Facebook 
 
 I have had the privilege of meeting some of these people through my blog. People like Maz Saleem, whose father Mohammed was murdered in a terrorist attack in Birmingham in 2013. 
 
 Maz founded a page on Facebook called “Education for Peace in Remembrance of Mohammed Saleem RIP” which fights against Islamophobia and stands up for the rights of refugees. The page now has more than 18,000 followers. 
 
 Before social media, Maz Saleem would have had to appeal to a powerful person – probably white, probably male, probably not a Muslim – to get permission to be heard. In the social media age, the power is all hers. 
 
 I have written about Martyn Hett, who used social media to create funny videos about Coronation Street, to promote his mum’s craft fair and to entertain millions of people. When Martyn was killed in the Manchester Arena bombing, my post encouraging people to #BeMoreMartyn went viral and encouraged thousands of people to be braver, to leave abusive relationships, to change jobs, or, in the case of one woman, to post a photograph of her beautiful disabled son, when previously she had been too afraid to do so. 
 
 Martyn Hett used social media to make the world a better place, and through social media he has continued to make people’s lives better even after death. 
 
 UK news in pictures 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 45 show all UK news in pictures 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1/45 14 January 2018 Glen Durrant celebrates with the trophy after victory during day nine of the BDO World Professional Darts Championship 2018 at The Lakeside PA 
 
 2/45 13 January 2018 The Whittlesea Straw Bear festival in Cambridgeshire celebrates the old Fenland plough custom of parading straw bears around the town every January. This Festival happens on the first weekend after Plough Monday. The procession, led by the Straw Bear, has over 250 dancers, musicians and performers. They perform traditional Molly, Morris, Clog and Sword dancing. Rex 
 
 3/45 12 January 2018 Workers look at the Madame Tussauds wax figure of US President Donald Trump outside the new US Embassy in Nine Elms, London, after Mr Trump confirmed he will not travel to the UK to open the new building - and hit out at the location of the 1.2 billion dollar (£886 million) project. Writing on Twitter, Trump said he thought the embassy's move from Grosvenor Square in the prestigious Mayfair district of central London to Nine Elms, south of the Thames, was a "bad deal". PA 
 
 4/45 11 January 2018 British Prime Minister Theresa May watches birds from inside a bird hide with school children at the Wildfowl and Wetland Trust's (WWT) ahead of a speech to launch the government's environment plan in London. Campaigners on January 11 criticised Theresa May's plan to eliminate all avoidable plastic waste within 25 years, calling it a "missed opportunity" that lacked the necessary urgency. The government will extend a charge on plastic bags to all businesses and encourage supermarkets to introduce plastic-free aisles, May said in speech. AFP/Getty 
 
 5/45 10 January 2018 Cirque du Soleil 'OVO' dress rehearsal at the Royal Albert Hall Rex 
 
 6/45 9 January 2018 Prime Minister Theresa May leads her first cabinet meeting of the new year at 10 Downing street PA 
 
 7/45 8 January 2018 Journalist Carrie Gracie speaks to the media outside the BBC in London after she turned down a £45,000 rise, describing the offer as a "botched solution" to the problem of unequal pay at the BBC. Gracie said she told the corporation she wanted equality, rather than more money, and was determined not to help the organisation "perpetuate a failing pay structure by discriminating against women" PA 
 
 8/45 7 January 2018 A man reads a newspaper as he takes part in the annual 'No Trousers On The Tube Day' (No Pants Subway Ride) at Liverpool Street Station. Started in 2002 with only seven participants, the day is now marked in over 60 cities around the world. The idea behind "No Pants" is that random passengers board a subway car at separate stops in the middle of winter, without wearing trousers. The participants wear all of the usual winter clothing on their top half such as hats, scarves and gloves and do not acknowledge each other's similar state of undress. AFP/Getty 
 
 9/45 6 January 2018 League Two side Coventry City celebrate victory over Premier League side Stoke in the FA Cup third round PA 
 
 10/45 5 January 2018 A commendation ceremony takes place at Manchester Town Hall to recognise the actions of police and rail staff following the terrorist attack at Manchester Arena in May 2017 PA 
 
 11/45 4 January 2018 Stuart (no surname given) with his possessions in a bus stop near Windsor Castle, Berkshire. Prime Minister Theresa May has said she disagrees with Tory council leader Simon Dudley, who called on police to clear rough sleepers from Windsor before the royal wedding PA 
 
 12/45 3 January 2018 Storm Eleanor lashed the UK with violent storm-force winds of up to 100mph PA 
 
 13/45 2 January 2018 Members of National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport (RMT) hold a demonstration against rail fare increases outside Kings Cross Railway Station, London. Average rail ticket prices across Britain have risen by 3.4 percent, the biggest increase to rail fares for five years EPA 
 
 14/45 1 January 2018 A man takes part in the Mappleton Bridge Jump, an annual unofficial tradition where those willing jump from Okeover bridge on New Years Day into the River Dove PA 
 
 15/45 31 December 2017 Passing clouds creating beautiful colours in Wimbledon on the last sunset of the year Rex 
 
 16/45 30 December 2017 One person was taken to hospital after a fire broke out on the ninth floor of a building in Joiner Street in Manchester's Northern Quarter mcr_cabbie/Twitter 
 
 17/45 29 December 2017 Heavy snow, rain, thunderstorms and wind have caused disruption across much of Britain as a band of "severe" weather rolled across the country. Travelers were warned of dangerous roads conditions, with Highways England advising road users to pack shovels, food and water if they do venture out. The weather didn't just affect travel however, camels on a farm near Richmond, North Yorkshire and various other animals are having to deal with the cold weather PA 
 
 18/45 28 December 2017 Alastair Cook celebrates after reaching his double-century during the third day of the fourth Ashes cricket test match Reuters 
 
 19/45 27 December 2017 Sheep are driven to another field in the Cotswolds after overnight snow caused travel disruptions across parts of the UK PA 
 
 20/45 26 December 2017 Harry Kane celebrates after scoring his third goal, Tottenham's fifth, during the Boxing day Premier League match against Southampton at Wembley. He broke Alan Shearer’s record of 36 Premier League goals in a calendar year, scoring 39 from 36 matches. Kane also finished 2017 as Europe’s leading scorer ahead of Barcelona’s Lionel Messi, who has 54 goals from 63 appearances in all competitions. Harry Kane has 56 from 52. AFP/Getty 
 
 21/45 25 December 2017 Swimmers get out of the water after taking part in the Christmas Day Serpentine swim in Hyde Park, London Reuters 
 
 22/45 24 December 2017 Stuart Broad of England bowls during a nets session at the Melbourne Cricket Ground, Australia. The fourth Ashes test starts on Boxing Day Getty 
 
 23/45 23 December 2017 Staff members console each other as they survey the damage after a fire destroyed a number of buildings at London Zoo. An aardvark has died and four meerkats are missing. Eight zoo workers have been treated by paramedics after a desperate attempt to save the animals from the blaze, which broke out in a petting area. 
 
 24/45 22 December 2017 Druids, pagans and revellers gather in the centre of Stonehenge, hoping to see the sun rise, as they take part in a winter solstice ceremony at the ancient neolithic monument of Stonehenge. Despite a forecast for cloud and rain, a large crowd gathered at the famous historic stone circle, to celebrate the sunrise closest to the Winter Solstice, the shortest day of the year. The event is claimed to be more important in the pagan calendar than the summer solstice, because it marks the 're-birth' of the Sun for the New Year. Getty Images 
 
 25/45 21 December 2017 Polish Defense Minister Antoni Macierewicz, British Defence Minister Gavin Williamson in the presence of Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May sign a treaty between the Republic of Poland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on cooperation in the field of defense and security EPA 
 
 26/45 20 December 2017 A protester wears a 'STOP BREXIT' hat outside the Palace of Westminster Reuters 
 
 27/45 19 December 2017 The Choristers of St Paul's rehearse for a series of services and concerts over the Christmas season at St Paul's Cathedral in London REUTERS 
 
 28/45 18 December 2017 Joe Root, the England captain is interviewed after Australia regained the Ashes. England lost by an innings and 41 run runs in the third test at the WACA in Perth Getty 
 
 29/45 17 December 2017 Photos of Richard Ratcliffe and his wife Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, who has been jailed in Iran, on display at their home in north London. Mr Ratcliffe says he believes there is "still a chance" she may be released from an Iranian prison in time for a dream Christmas together. PA 
 
 30/45 16 December 2017 Oxford Street in London is filled with shoppers with 8 shopping days before Christmas Rex 
 
 31/45 15 December 2017 Jonny Bairstow of England headbutts his helmet to celebrate his century during day two of the Third Test match in the 2017/18 Ashes Series between Australia and England at the WACA in Perth, Australia. Bairstow was embroiled in controversy at the beginning of the tour after lightly headbutting Australian opening batsman Cameron Bancroft in an exchange in a bar 
 
 32/45 14 December 2017 People at the Grenfell Tower National Memorial Service PA 
 
 33/45 13 December 2017 Wax figures of Prime Minister Theresa May and Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson wearing a Christmas Jumper at Madame Tussauds EPA 
 
 34/45 12 December 2017 Victims and family of victims of the Grenfell Tower fire, Nicholas Burton (left), Sandra Ruiz (second right), Karim Mussilhy (right) and a girl who asked not be named (second left), hand in a petition to Downing Street, asking for an overhaul of the public inquiry. PA 
 
 35/45 11 December 2017 A homeless man on the streets of Manchester. Many people are spending the night on the streets in freezing temperatures as the Met Office continues to issue weather warnings across the country. The Shelter charity has said that more than 300,000 are now homeless across Britain, equating to the population of a city the size of Newcastle Getty 
 
 36/45 10 December 2017 Pedestrians walk over the Millennium Bridge with St Paul's Cathedral pictured in the background as snow falls AFP/Getty Images 
 
 37/45 9 December 2017 British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson, left, and Secretary of Iran's Supreme National Security Council Ali Shamkhani, right, with interpreter at centre, during their meeting in Tehran, Iran. Johnson is expected to discuss the fate of detained British-Iranian woman Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, who is serving a five-year prison sentence for allegedly plotting to overthrow Iran's government. AP 
 
 38/45 8 December 2017 British Prime Minister Theresa May (L) and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker address a press conference at the European Commission in Brussels AFP/Getty Images 
 
 39/45 7 December 2017 Nick Dunn, one of the so-called Chennai Six is greeted by his sister Lisa as he arrives at Newcastle Airport after being released from India after serving four years in jail on weapons charges. PA 
 
 40/45 6 December 2017 Britain's Queen Elizabeth II (L) greets Nigeria's ambassador to the United Kingdom, George Adesola Oguntade (C), and his wife, Modupe Oguntade, during a private audience at Buckingham Palace in central London AFP/Getty 
 
 41/45 5 December 2017 800 abandoned buckets appear at Potters Field Park, London, in a moving tribute to the 800 children who die every day, on average, due to a lack of clean water and sanitation. Just one bucket in the installation, part of WaterAid’s #Untapped appeal, could hold almost enough safe drinking water for one child for a week. Every £1 donated to the #Untapped appeal until 31st January 2018 will be matched by the UK Government. WaterAid / Ollie Dixon 
 
 42/45 4 December 2017 British Prime Minister Theresa May smiles to European Union President Donald Tusk as she attends Brexit negotiations' meetings AFP/Getty 
 
 43/45 3 December 2017 The last Supermoon of 2017 sets over Whitley Bay, Northumberland PA 
 
 44/45 2 December 2017 The crowd reacts as England's Dawid Malan fails to stop a boundary during the first day of the second Ashes test match REUTERS 
 
 45/45 1 December 2017 England manager, Gareth Southgate, jokes with Belgium manager, Roberto Martinez, after their sides were drawn in the same group during the Final Draw for the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia Getty Images 
 
 People like Maz and Martyn appreciate that what social media lacks in factual accuracy, it makes up for in its ability to build relationships. Social media is a tool, and like all tools, whether its effects are good or bad lies entirely in how it is used. 
 
 To claim that social media is destroying society is like claiming that bricks are the cause of Trump's border wall or that turkeys and crackers are the reason we have family arguments at Christmas. Social media is a way of managing our relationships, but it is not responsible for the quality of those relationships. We are. 
 
 By improving our skills of communication, by making social media a place to contribute, to organise, and to pull together, it may yet be the most glorious invention we have ever created. We hold the keys, the compasses, the maps, and the directions. Where we end up is entirely in our hands. ||||| CLOSE It's hard to imagine any more user growth for Facebook now that over 2 billion users are on the platform. Video provided by TheStreet Newslook 
 
 ‘Brain hacking’ Internet monopolies menace public health, democracy, writes Roger McNamee. 
 
 Facebook and Alphabet stocks (Photo: Mark Lennihan, AP) 
 
 I invested in Google and Facebook years before their first revenue and profited enormously. I was an early adviser to Facebook’s team, but I am terrified by the damage being done by these Internet monopolies. 
 
 Technology has transformed our lives in countless ways, mostly for the better. Thanks to the now ubiquitous smartphone, tech touches us from the moment we wake up until we go to sleep. While the convenience of smartphones has many benefits, the unintended consequences of well-intentioned product choices have become a menace to public health and to democracy. 
 
 Facebook and Google get their revenue from advertising, the effectiveness of which depends on gaining and maintaining consumer attention. Borrowing techniques from the gambling industry, Facebook, Google and others exploit human nature, creating addictive behaviors that compel consumers to check for new messages, respond to notifications, and seek validation from technologies whose only goal is to generate profits for their owners. 
 
 More: Legal automation spells relief for lower-income Americans, hard times for lawyers 
 
 More: Please do not let your employer microchip you 
 
 The people at Facebook and Google believe that giving consumers more of what they want and like is worthy of praise, not criticism. What they fail to recognize is that their products are not making consumers happier or more successful. Like gambling, nicotine, alcohol or heroin, Facebook and Google — most importantly through its YouTube subsidiary — produce short-term happiness with serious negative consequences in the long term. Users fail to recognize the warning signs of addiction until it is too late. There are only 24 hours in a day, and technology companies are making a play for all them. The CEO of Netflix recently noted that his company’s primary competitor is sleep. 
 
 How does this work? A 2013 study found that average consumers check their smartphones 150 times a day. And that number has probably grown. People spend 50 minutes a day on Facebook. Other social apps such as Snapchat, Instagram and Twitter combine to take up still more time. Those companies maintain a profile on every user, which grows every time you like, share, search, shop or post a photo. Google also is analyzing credit card records of millions of people. 
 
 As a result, the big Internet companies know more about you than you know about yourself, which gives them huge power to influence you, to persuade you to do things that serve their economic interests. Facebook, Google and others compete for each consumer’s attention, reinforcing biases and reducing the diversity of ideas to which each is exposed. The degree of harm grows over time. 
 
 Consider a recent story from Australia, where someone at Facebook told advertisers that they had the ability to target teens who were sad or depressed, which made them more susceptible to advertising. In the United States, Facebook once demonstrated its ability to make users happier or sadder by manipulating their news feed. While it did not turn either capability into a product, the fact remains that Facebook influences the emotional state of users every moment of every day. Former Google design ethicist Tristan Harris calls this "brain hacking." 
 
 More: We need answers in Democrats' congressional IT drama 
 
 POLICING THE USA: A look at race, justice, media 
 
 The fault here is not with search and social networking, per se. Those services have enormous value. The fault lies with advertising business models that drive companies to maximize attention at all costs, leading to ever more aggressive brain hacking. 
 
 The Facebook application has 2 billion active users around the world. Google’s YouTube has 1.5 billion. These numbers are comparable to Christianity and Islam, respectively, giving Facebook and Google influence greater than most First World countries. They are too big and too global to be held accountable. Other attention-based apps — including Instagram, WhatsApp, WeChat, SnapChat and Twitter — also have user bases between 100 million and 1.3 billion. Not all their users have had their brains hacked, but all are on that path. And there are no watchdogs. 
 
 Anyone who wants to pay for access to addicted users can work with Facebook and YouTube. Lots of bad people have done it. One firm was caught using Facebook tools to spy on law abiding citizens. A federal agency confronted Facebook about the use of its tools by financial firms to discriminate based on race in the housing market. America’s intelligence agencies have concluded that Russia interfered in our election and that Facebook was a key platform for spreading misinformation. For the price of a few fighter aircraft, Russia won an information war against us. 
 
 Incentives being what they are, we cannot expect Internet monopolies to police themselves. There is little government regulation and no appetite to change that. If we want to stop brain hacking, consumers will have to force changes at Facebook and Google. 
 
 Roger McNamee is the managing director and a co-founder of Elevation Partners, and investment partnership focused on media/entertainment content and consumer technology. 
 
 You can read diverse opinions from our Board of Contributors and other writers on the Opinion front page, on Twitter @USATOpinion and in our daily Opinion newsletter. To respond to a column, submit a comment to letters@usatoday.com. 
 
 Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2wphsDl ||||| Be smart: Parker's I-was-there account provides priceless perspective in the rising debate about the power and effects of the social networks, which now have scale and reach unknown in human history. He's worried enough that he's sounding the alarm. 
 
 Sean Parker, the founding president of Facebook, gave me a candid insider's look at how social networks purposely hook and potentially hurt our brains. 
 
 Parker, 38, now founder and chair of the Parker Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy, spoke yesterday at an Axios event at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia, about accelerating cancer innovation. In the green room, Parker mentioned that he has become "something of a conscientious objector" on social media. 
 
 By the time he left the stage, he jokingly said Mark Zuckerberg will probably block his account after reading this: 
 
 
 
 "When Facebook was getting going, I had these people who would come up to me and they would say, 'I'm not on social media.' And I would say, 'OK. You know, you will be.' And then they would say, 'No, no, no. I value my real-life interactions. I value the moment. I value presence. I value intimacy.' And I would say, ... 'We'll get you eventually.'" 
 
 "I don't know if I really understood the consequences of what I was saying, because [of] the unintended consequences of a network when it grows to a billion or 2 billion people and ... it literally changes your relationship with society, with each other ... It probably interferes with productivity in weird ways. God only knows what it's doing to our children's brains." 
 
 "The thought process that went into building these applications, Facebook being the first of them, ... was all about: 'How do we consume as much of your time and conscious attention as possible?'" 
 
 "And that means that we need to sort of give you a little dopamine hit every once in a while, because someone liked or commented on a photo or a post or whatever. And that's going to get you to contribute more content, and that's going to get you ... more likes and comments." 
 
 "It's a social-validation feedback loop ... exactly the kind of thing that a hacker like myself would come up with, because you're exploiting a vulnerability in human psychology." 
 
 "The inventors, creators — it's me, it's Mark [Zuckerberg], it's Kevin Systrom on Instagram, it's all of these people — understood this consciously. And we did it anyway." P.S. Parker, on life science allowing us to "live much longer, more productive lives": "Because I'm a billionaire, I'm going to have access to better health care so ... I'm going to be like 160 and I'm going to be part of this, like, class of immortal overlords. [Laughter] Because, you know the [Warren Buffett] expression about compound interest. ... [G]ive us billionaires an extra hundred years and you'll know what ... wealth disparity looks like." 
 
 Go deeper: See the video of Parker's comments. 
 
 Go deeper: Joe Biden rips Trump's "phony nationalism". 
 
 Sign up for Axios newsletters to get our Smart Brevity delivered to your inbox every morning. ||||| Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Chamath Palihapitiya worked at Facebook at a time when it was growing rapidly 
 
 Facebook has responded to a former executive who said the social network, and other services like it, was "ripping society apart". 
 
 Chamath Palihapitiya made the comments last month but were circulated widely online on Monday. 
 
 Facebook took the unusual step of issuing a statement to defend itself. 
 
 A spokesperson said Mr Palihapitiya had not worked at Facebook for more than six years. 
 
 "When Chamath was at Facebook we were focused on building new social media experiences and growing Facebook around the world. Facebook was a very different company back then and as we have grown we have realised how our responsibilities have grown too." 
 
 Mr Palihapitiya, who was Facebook's vice-president for user growth, is now a prominent venture capitalist. 
 
 He is the latest member of an influential chorus worried about the true impact of the "like" culture - a feeling that too many people turn to social networks for validation and happiness. 
 
 "We have created tools that are ripping apart the social fabric of how society works," Mr Palihapitiya said. 
 
 He is not alone. Sean Parker, Facebook's first president and the architect of much of its early commercial development, recently expressed regret about the part he played in Facebook's history. 
 
 “God only knows what it’s doing to our children’s brains," he told Mike Allen from US news site Axios. 
 
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Sean Parker shares his concerns about social media 
 
 "We take our role very seriously and we are working hard to improve," Facebook's statement continued. 
 
 "We've done a lot of work and research with outside experts and academics to understand the effects of our service on well-being, and we're using it to inform our product development. 
 
 "We are also making significant investments more in people, technology and processes, and – as Mark Zuckerberg said on the last earnings call – we are willing to reduce our profitability to make sure the right investments are made." 
 
 Despite these prominent figures voicing their concerns, Facebook's business strategy is pressing ahead. 
 
 Last week it launched Messenger Kids, its first app for children under the age of 13, a group previously not officially allowed on Facebook (though many often worked around the trivial measures preventing them from signing up). 
 
 The launch of Messenger Kids came with the cautious blessing of several organisations that aim to protect children online and elsewhere. 
 
 However, UK health secretary Jeremy Hunt tweeted in response: "Stay away from my kids please Facebook and act responsibly." 
 
 Facebook's statement suggests the company may be devising a strategy to hit back against criticism as we enter 2018. The new year is set to bring many challenges for the firm as it also contends with the persistent issue of fake news and propaganda on the platform. 
 
 I predict we'll see a worldwide marketing campaign highlighting the good Facebook does in bringing communities together. The company's aim must be to demonstrate that the positive contribution to society will be seen to greatly outweigh the negative. 
 
 Follow Dave Lee on Twitter @DaveLeeBBC 
 
 You can reach Dave securely through encrypted messaging app Signal on: +1 (628) 400-7370