Source: Multi-News

A Sauk Village nail salon allegedly burned a man so badly during a pedicure his leg was later amputated and his injuries caused or contributed to his death, according to court records. 
 
 According to a wrongful death lawsuit filed in Cook County court Thursday by the man’s wife, Darryl Carr went to AZ Happy Nails for a pedicure in November 2013. His feet were soaked in a hot water and chemical solution, followed by a hot wax solution, the lawsuit states. 
 
 The suit alleges AZ Happy Nails was careless or negligent in using contaminated or unsafe chemical and wax solutions, soaking Carr’s foot in the solutions too long, using excessive heat on Carr’s left foot and failing to test whether Carr might suffer an allergic reaction or ask whether he had any medical conditions. 
 
 They also failed to warn Carr about the risk of harm and failed to properly train and supervise its employees, the suit claims. 
 
 "As the proximate result … (Carr) suffered injuries of a personal and pecuniary nature, including serious burns to his left foot and leg, which subsequently became infected, resulting in the amputation of his left foot and leg, and other medical complications that ultimately caused or contributed to his death on June 4, 2015," the lawsuit states. 
 
 The lawsuit also names A-Z Nail Spa, Inc., Wen Hua Cong and Xiao Xian Wang. During a call to AZ Happy Nails, a person answering the phone said the salon’s owners or manager were not available to comment Friday evening. 
 
 Carr’s wife is seeking more than $50,000 in damages, according to the complaint. ||||| A man who went to a South suburban nail salon for a pedicure lost his leg, and then his life, after he contracted a gruesome infection, according to a lawsuit filed Friday. 
 
 Darryl Carr got the pedicure on Nov. 13, 2014, at AZ Happy Nails, 1715 Sauk Trail in Sauk Village, according to the lawsuit filed by his widow, Latania Peterson-Carr, in Cook County Circuit Court. 
 
 Workers at Happy Nails soaked Darryl Carr’s feet in a hot water and chemical solution, followed by a hot wax solution, the suit claims. 
 
 But the solutions were contaminated and Darryl Carr’s left foot soaked for an excessive period of time, it’s alleged. 
 
 He suffered “serious burns” to his left foot and leg, which then became infected and had to be amputated, the suit claims. 
 
 The infection and amputation eventually led to “other medical complications that ultimately caused or contributed to his death on June 4, 2015,” according to the suit, which also claims the workers did not determine whether their customer was at risk for an allergic reaction and did not inquire about underlying medical conditions. 
 
 Darryl Carr is survived by his wife and two children, ages 10 and 13, the suit claims. Latania Peterson-Carr is seeking at least $50,000 in damages. 
 
 A representative from Happy Nails could not be reached for comment Friday evening.