Source: Multi-News

The wonder, or perhaps the horror, of social media is that it allows people to remotely participate in a catastrophe in a personal but safe way. Photos are one thing, but hearing the real terror and fear from those who are there fully experiencing it in real time is another thing entirely. In another earthquake video shared on Twitter, a man holds a phone to record his reaction along with that of a woman in the room. He says no way, no way, no way and the woman babbles, I think she's praying, as the furniture topples and the room rocks. It's a terribly intimate moment I'm almost embarrassed to watch. But it strikes a chord. I've been there. And I will be there again, most likely. ||||| The U.S. Geological Survey's ShakeMap said light to moderate shaking — categorized as intensity 4 and 5, and depicted on a map as aqua and green — was felt in parts of the Westside and the San Fernando Valley, but probably was not heavy enough to cause any significant damage. Shaking was also felt in Los Feliz, Silver Lake and Glendale. ||||| The wonder, or perhaps the horror, of social media is that it allows people to remotely participate in a catastrophe in a personal but safe way. Photos are one thing, but hearing the real terror and fear from those who are there fully experiencing it in real time is another thing entirely. In another earthquake video shared on Twitter, a man holds a phone to record his reaction along with that of a woman in the room. He says no way, no way, no way and the woman babbles, I think she's praying, as the furniture topples and the room rocks. It's a terribly intimate moment I'm almost embarrassed to watch. But it strikes a chord. I've been there. And I will be there again, most likely. ||||| Hurricanes in Florida, Texas and the Caribbean; record-high temperatures in San Francisco; and wildfires in the Pacific Northwest. 
 
 And last night, a 3.6-magnitude earthquake a few miles away from Westwood, Calif., a neighborhood in Los Angeles near Bel Air, Calabasas, Beverly Hills and Santa Monica. “Earthquakes like this happen several times a year, so it’s not uncommon at all,” said John Bellini, a geophysicist at the United States Geological Survey’s National Earthquake Information Center. 
 
 You wouldn’t know it from the reactions on social media. After the earthquake struck at 11:20 p.m. local time, tremors erupted across Los Angeles Twitter. ||||| We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? 
 
 Yes