Source: Multi-News

Pls share and RT: Cyclist beware. We've had bikes stolen after being locked to sabotaged racks in # Camberwell pic.twitter.com/V4UHUEfvld ||||| Thieves saw through bike-racks, cover the cuts with tape, wait for bikes to be locked to them 
 
 
 
 PC Mark McKay, a police officer in Camberwell, London, tweeted this warning to locals to beware of bike racks that thieves have sawn through and camouflaged with gaffer tape; once the bikes are locked up, the thieves return, remove the tape, and make off with the bikes. 
 
 It's basically the principle at work in this magic gimmick, on a macro-scale. ||||| Image copyright Sarah King Image caption The cycle rack had been sliced through and then covered with tape to conceal the break 
 
 A cyclist who had her bike stolen after it was secured to a sabotaged bike rack has warned others about the "cunning" scam. 
 
 Sarah King found her cycle was missing from a rack in Camberwell on Thursday night following a meeting. 
 
 Ms King said she had not realised it had been cut through and then taped back together before she locked her bike to it. 
 
 Met Police are working with Southwark Council to investigate the theft. 
 
 Ms King, a Labour councillor, said it was the first time she had heard of a bike being stolen in such a way and wanted to warn others. 
 
 She said she was "upset and shocked" to find it missing as "I love cycling in London and I love my bike". 
 
 Her tweet warning cyclists about the scam has been retweeted nearly 2,500 times. 
 
 Councillor Darren Merrill, of Southwark Council, said: "It is appalling that the growing cycling population in the borough are being targeted by these cunning thieves." ||||| Thieves are apparently slicing through London's bike racks and taping them up to appear intact in a new ploy to steal bicycles. 
 
 Cyclists are being warned not to secure their bicycles to fixtures which have gaffer tape wrapped around them after the new trick came to light. 
 
 Thieves are cutting through metal racks and then temporarily repairing the fitting with tape to give the illusion the structure is in one piece. 
 
 But Sarah King, Labour councillor for South Camberwell, posted a picture on Twitter on Thursday evening showing how she had fallen prey to the latest scam in Camberwell at the junction of Camberwell Church Street and Vicarage Grove. 
 
 Alongside the photograph, she said: “Cyclists please watch out for gaffer tape on bike racks covering up that they’re cut straight through.” 
 
 Cyclists please watch out for gaffer tape on bike racks covering up that they're cut straight through pic.twitter.com/RRiJYVfnwV — Sarah King (@sezking78) February 25, 2016 
 
 After a cyclist secures their bicycle to the rack, the thief can then return to remove the tape and slide through the bicycle lock, allowing them to take the pedal cycle. 
 
 Cllr King told the Standard: "I love cycling and love my bike so I was really upset and I wanted to warn people what was going on. I think the cut was already there and was taped up so it was not visible." 
 
 She added when she returned to her bicycle, she initially was initially confused and thought she had left her bike elsewhere. 
 
 Cllr King said: "The tape had been pulled back but it was not until I pushed the var that I realised what had happened." 
 
 Cherry Allan, policy offer for CTC, told the Huffington Post: “The more publicity that can be given to this, the better. Greater awareness will help the local community and the police who patrol our streets to put an end to this crime. 
 
 “All cyclists need to be aware of this and watch out for any bike racks covered in gaffer tape which look suspicious, whether it is their bike at risk or someone else’s. 
 
 “Also, please be wary of buying a bike from an unofficial source that seems too good a deal to be true, in case it has been stolen." ||||| A Labour councillor for South Camberwell has revealed a cunning new trick being used by bike thieves. 
 
 Sarah King posted a picture on Twitter showing how thieves had found a way to beat bike locks - by rendering the cycling racks used to secure them to, ineffective. 
 
 Her picture, taken in Camberwell, shows a bike rack that thieves had cut through, then used gaffer tape to repair, allowing them to steal a bicycle by removing the rack, rather than having to remove the bike lock. 
 
 Cyclists please watch out for gaffer tape on bike racks covering up that they're cut straight through pic.twitter.com/RRiJYVfnwV — Sarah King (@sezking78) February 25, 2016 
 
 King wrote: "Cyclists please watch out for gaffer tape on bike racks covering up that they're cut straight through." 
 
 King said she had notified Labour councillor for Brunswick Park, Mark Williams, about the ploy and he had since asked Southwark Council to replace the bike rack. 
 
 A Metropolitan police spokeswoman said she hadn't heard of thieves using the new trick. 
 
 A spokesperson from London Cyclist said she had "never heard of them (thieves) doing that before", adding that it was "pretty depressing". 
 
 According to national cycling charity, CTC, hundreds of thousands of bicycles are stolen in England and Wales every year. 
 
 Between April 2014 and March 2015, there were 381,000 incidents of bike theft in England and Wales, it said, noting that there had been a "slight increase" recently. 
 
 However, CTC noted that "the good news is that over the long term", incidents of bicycle theft are now around 42% lower than in 1995. 
 
 Cherry Allan, Policy Officer for CTC said: “The more publicity that can be given to this, the better. Greater awareness will help the local community and the police who patrol our streets to put an end to this crime. 
 
 “All cyclists need to be aware of this and watch out for any bike racks covered in gaffer tape which look suspicious, whether it is their bike at risk or someone else’s. Also, please be wary of buying a bike from an unofficial source that seems too good a deal to be true, in case it has been stolen.” 
 
 Reaction to the picture has been one of reluctant admiration.