Source: Multi-News

This image provided by the Sharma Centre for Heritage Education, India in January 2018 shows a sample of artifacts from the Middle Palaeolithic era found at the Attirampakkam archaeological site in southern... (Associated Press) 
 
 This image provided by the Sharma Centre for Heritage Education, India in January 2018 shows a sample of artifacts from the Middle Palaeolithic era found at the Attirampakkam archaeological site in southern India. The discovery of stone tools at the site shows a style that has been associated elsewhere... (Associated Press) 
 
 This image provided by the Sharma Centre for Heritage Education, India in January 2018 shows a sample of artifacts from the Middle Palaeolithic era found at the Attirampakkam archaeological site in southern India. The discovery of stone tools at the site shows a style that has been associated elsewhere... (Associated Press) This image provided by the Sharma Centre for Heritage Education, India in January 2018 shows a sample of artifacts from the Middle Palaeolithic era found at the Attirampakkam archaeological site in southern... (Associated Press) 
 
 NEW YORK (AP) — Just a week after scientists reported evidence that our species left Africa earlier than we thought, another discovery is suggesting the date might be pushed back further. 
 
 Homo sapiens arose in Africa at least 300,000 years ago and left to colonize the globe. Scientists think there were several dispersals from Africa, not all equally successful. Last week's report of a human jaw showed some members of our species had reached Israel by 177,000 to 194,000 years ago. 
 
 Now comes a discovery in India of stone tools, showing a style that has been associated elsewhere with our species. They were fashioned from 385,000 years ago to 172,000 years ago, showing evidence of continuity and development over that time. That starting point is a lot earlier than scientists generally think Homo sapiens left Africa. 
 
 This tool style has also been attributed to Neanderthals and possibly other species. So it's impossible to say whether the tools were made by Homo sapiens or some evolutionary cousin, say researchers who reported the finding Wednesday in the journal Nature . 
 
 "We are very cautious on this point" because no human fossils were found with the tools, several authors added in a statement. 
 
 It's not clear how much the tool development reflects arrival of populations or ideas from outside India, versus being more of a local development, said one author, Shanti Pappu of the Sharma Centre for Heritage Education in Chennai, India. 
 
 The tool-making style was a change from older stone tools found at the site, featuring a shift to smaller flakes, for example. 
 
 Michael Petraglia, an archaeologist who specializes in human evolution in Asia but didn't participate in the work, said he did not think the tools show that our species had left Africa so long ago. 
 
 "I simply don't buy it," said Petraglia of the Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History in Jena, Germany. 
 
 Instead, he said, he believes one of our evolutionary cousins in India developed the tool style independently of outside influence. The tools at the site northwest of Chennai in southeastern India are closely related to the older tool-making style there and seem to represent a transition, he said. 
 
 The idea that they reflect knowledge brought in from elsewhere would be tough to prove in India, he said. The country has few well-studied archaeological sites and only one fossil find from this period, from a forerunner of Homo sapiens that was associated with the earlier style of tool-making, Petraglia said. 
 
 ___ 
 
 Follow Malcolm Ritter at @MalcolmRitter . His recent work can be found here. ||||| Discovery In India Suggests An Early Global Spread Of Stone Age Technology 
 
 Enlarge this image toggle caption Sharma Centre for Heritage Education, India/Nature Sharma Centre for Heritage Education, India/Nature 
 
 Somewhere around 300,000 years ago, our human ancestors in parts of Africa began to make small, sharp tools, using stone flakes that they created using a technique called Levallois. 
 
 The technology, named after a suburb of Paris where tools made this way were first discovered, was a profound upgrade from the bigger, less-refined tools of the previous era, and marks the Middle Stone Age in Africa and the Middle Paleolithic era in Europe and western Asia. 
 
 Neanderthals in Europe also used these tools around the same time. And scientists have thought that the technology spread to other parts of the globe much later — after modern humans moved out of Africa. 
 
 But scientists in India recently discovered thousands of stone tools made with Levallois technique, dating back to 385,000 years ago. These latest findings, published Wednesday in the journal Nature, suggest the Levallois technique spread across the world long before researchers previously thought. 
 
 The Indian team uncovered these tools at one of India's best known archaeological sites — Attirampakkam, which is located near the present-day city of Chennai in southern India. 
 
 "It has a very, very long history of occupation of different prehistoric cultures in this one site," says Shanti Pappu, an archaeologist at the Sharma Centre for Heritage Education in Chennai and one of the lead authors of the new study. 
 
 The oldest artifacts from the site — big hand axes and cleavers — date back all the way to 1.5 million years ago, and are associated with the older Acheulian culture of the Early Stone Age. 
 
 The more recent tools, which date between 385,000 to 172,000 years ago, are small and clearly made with Levallois technique; it relies on first creating a starter stone in the shape of a turtle shell, then hitting that preformed stone to create a flake with sharp edges. 
 
 The flakes were used as knives and scrapers, scientists say; the technique gave the toolmakers more control over the size and shape of the tool. 
 
 "It's a very specific technology, very clearly identifiable and very similar to what you see in Africa," says Pappu. 
 
 The more than 7,000 artifacts discovered at the site run counter to what's been the prevailing theory about when the technology first reached the region. 
 
 "It was believed that this particular cultural or behavioral package perhaps came to India about 125,000 years ago, by modern humans dispersing out of Africa," says Pappu. Another hypothesis suggested that the technology came even later to India, around 70,000 years ago. 
 
 "The findings of this paper clearly knock those ideas out of the water," says paleoanthropologist Rick Potts, the head of the Human Origins Program at the Smithsonian Museum of Natural History, who wasn't involved in the study. "It has to be earlier." 
 
 "This is a marvelous discovery," says Michael Petraglia, at the Max Planck Institute for The Science of Human History, who also had no role in the recent research. "It fills a very important gap in our knowledge of cultural history of humans in South Asia between 400,000 to 175,000 years ago." 
 
 The team in India found no human or hominin fossils at the site, which makes it hard to know what ancestral human species lived here and made these tools. 
 
 "It's a whodunit, and we don't have the answer," Potts says. 
 
 The authors think it could have been modern humans, Homo sapiens, who moved out of Africa much earlier than currently believed, and brought this technology with them. 
 
 Or, they say, a more ancestral hominin might have developed the technology independently in India. 
 
 Petraglia thinks it's the latter, since there's no fossil evidence anywhere in India suggesting that modern humans arrived there earlier. However, fossil evidence does hint, he says, that a more ancestral human species — Homo heidelbergensis — lived on the subcontinent and used some of the older Acheulian technologies. 
 
 And, given that the Acheulian and Levallois technologies partially overlap at this site, "I see that as continuity in the archaeological record of India, rather than as an external influence," says Petraglia. 
 
 "It looks like the Neanderthals of Europe and the near East, as well as the ancestors of Homo sapiens in Africa developed this ... Levallois technique independently of one another," says Potts. It might have developed independently in South Asia as well. "We're familiar in history of independent inventions of things like the calendar in different parts of the world." 
 
 Potts says what excites him most about the new finding is that it places India prominently on the map of human innovation and toolmaking. 
 
 "It raises a question that all archaeologists should be asking right now," he says. "What else was going on in India and how prominent was it in the story of human origins?"