Source: Multi-News

(CNN) The suspect in Friday's knife attack at Amsterdam's central railway station had a "terrorist motive" and is believed to have acted alone, police in the Netherlands said Saturday. 
 
 Police said the suspect is a 19-year-old Afghan man who lives in Germany. Police would only identify him as Jawed S. 
 
 Two US citizens were stabbed, US and Dutch authorities said Saturday. The victims were seriously injured but are not in critical condition, the Amsterdam mayor's office said. 
 
 Police shot the suspect after the stabbings. A police spokesman told CNN the teenage suspect remains in a hospital, where he will be questioned later Saturday with the help of a translator. 
 
 Police in Amsterdam said they are in "intensive contact" with their German counterparts on the case. German authorities did a search of the suspect's house, where they found and seized data storage items that will be analyzed, police said. 
 
 Read More ||||| Image copyright AFP Image caption Amsterdam Central Station is used by an estimated 250,000 travellers every day 
 
 An Afghan man accused of injuring two people in a stabbing at Amsterdam's central railway station on Friday had a terrorist motive, officials say. 
 
 The man, who has been named in Dutch media as Jawed S, was shot and wounded by police during the incident. 
 
 Earlier the US ambassador said the two victims were American tourists. 
 
 "We are aware that both victims were US citizens and have been in touch with them and their families," Pete Hoekstra said in a statement on Saturday. 
 
 The authorities said: "Following an initial statement it has emerged the man had a terrorist motive." 
 
 German police have conducted a search of the suspect's home in Germany. 
 
 A police spokesman quoted by Agence France-Presse said the arrested Afghan man did not know the victims and had not singled them out specifically as targets. 
 
 The attacker and victims were all taken to hospital for treatment. 
 
 Some train services in and out of the station were suspended during the incident and two platforms closed. 
 
 The Central Station is used by an estimated 250,000 travellers every day.