Source: Multi-News

Photo: Filipe Braga; Courtesy Fundação de Serralves, Museum of Contemporary Art, Porto 
 
 A visitor to the Anish Kapoor exhibition at the Serralves museum in Porto was hospitalised this week after falling inside one of the British artist’s installations, which features a 2.5-metre-deep hole. It is not clear whether he fell into the hole or beside it. 
 
 A spokesman for the museum says that the “visitor is OK [and] almost ready to return home”. He added that “security protocol was followed” and there are warning signs as well as a member of gallery staff inside the installation. It has been temporarily closed while the institution assesses what happened but it hopes to reopen it “in a few days”. According to the Público newspaper, the injured man is Italian and around 60 years old. 
 
 The work, Descent into Limbo (1992), consists of a cube-shaped building, which can be entered by visitors, with a circular hole in the centre of its floor. The sides of the hole are coated in black pigment, giving the illusion of a depthless void. 
 
 Anish Kapoor: Works, Thoughts, Experiments (until 6 January 2019) is the artist’s first major institutional show in Portugal. ||||| Public Art Program > Cloud Gate 
 
 201 E. Randolph St., between Michigan Ave & Columbus Ave 
 
 Chicago, IL 60602 
 
 (click on image to enlarge) 
 
 Cloud Gate is British artist Anish Kapoor's first public outdoor work installed in the United States. 
 
 
 
 The 110-ton elliptical sculpture is forged of a seamless series of highly polished stainless steel plates, which reflect Chicago’s famous skyline and the clouds above. A 12-foot-high arch provides a "gate" to the concave chamber beneath the sculpture, inviting visitors to touch its mirror-like surface and see their image reflected back from a variety of perspectives. 
 
 
 
 Inspired by liquid mercury, the sculpture is among the largest of its kind in the world, measuring 66-feet long by 33-feet high. 
 
 
 
 Cloud Gate sits upon the AT&T Plaza, which was made possible by a gift from AT&T. 
 
 
 
 Millennium Park is located in the heart of downtown Chicago. It is bordered by Michigan Avenue to the west, Columbus Drive to the east, Randolph Street to the north and Monroe Street to the south. 
 
 Learn More ||||| Anish Kapoor’s fascination with the void has led him to create some of his best-known works. Now, it has also caused someone to fall into an eight-foot pit. Last week, a 60-year-old Italian man fell into a hole that was part of the artist’s installation Descent Into Limbo at the Fundação de Serralves, Museum of Contemporary Art in Porto, Portugal. 
 
 The man was hospitalized following the incident, which took place August 13, according to the local newspaper Público. The work is on view as part of “Anish Kapoor: Works, Thoughts, Experiments,” the artist’s first Portuguese museum survey, where the wall text notes that “the sculpture is an expression of Kapoor’s interests in the formal and metaphoric play between light and darkness, inside and outside, the contained and the infinite, which underpins his sculptural oeuvre.” 
 
 “An accident happened,” Fernando Rodrigues Pereira, the museum’s press officer, told artnet News in an email. “Now this installation is temporarily closed.” The exhibition had displayed warning signs and a staff member was manning the room when the man fell, as per established security protocols. 
 
 “The visitor has already left the hospital and he is recovering well,” Pereira added. 
 
 Visitors enter the installation through a small doorway leading into a freestanding concrete and stucco room, approximately 20 feet square. In the center of the floor is a circular pit, the sides painted black so that it at first appears solid, hiding its true depths. Kapoor designed Descent Into Limbo to appear like an endless chasm in space; looking down into it is a dizzying experience. 
 
 A representative of the museum told the Art Newspaper on Friday that there are plans to reopen the installation “in a few days.” 
 
 On the artist’s website, the work, which was first created for documenta IX in 1992, is described as a “cubed building with a dark hole in the floor. This is a space full of darkness, not a hole in the ground.” The piece takes its name from a painting by Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna. 
 
 “Anish Kapoor: Works, Thoughts, Experiments,” is on view at the Serralves Museum, Rua D. João de Castro, 210, 4150-417, Porto, Portugal, through January 6, 2019. 
 
 Follow artnet News on Facebook: ||||| Screenshot: Serralves Museum (YouTube) 
 
 Like a real-life version of a Looney Tunes cartoon, a visitor to a Portuguese museum was injured last week when he stepped into an art installation resembling an inky void. Currently on exhibit at the Serralves Museum in Porto, Descent Into Limbo by Anish Kapoor includes an actual eight-foot hole that’s painted black—so it appears to have no depth at all. 
 
 According to Britain’s Times, attendees of previous showings of the work have questioned “whether there really was a hole in the floor or whether it was simply a circle painted with an extremely dark black paint.” Presumably there will be no doubts going forward. 
 
 Advertisement 
 
 Though the Descent Into Limbo installation was reportedly surrounded with warning signs and staffers warning visitors not to get too close, there was no barrier around it. How the museumgoer, whom Portugal’s Publico reports was an Italian man in his 60s, was able to step into the hole isn’t known, but he was briefly hospitalized for the eight-foot fall. The museum closed the exhibit to assess what happened, but says it plans to reopen it soon. 
 
 In addition to being known for his over-sized installations (including the giant reflective Cloud Gate “bean” in Chicago), Kapoor made headlines in 2016 when he secured the exclusive artistic rights to a physics-defying material called Vantablack. Developed by a British company called Surrey NanoSystems, the material is able to trap photons in-between lab-grown carbon nanotubes, which bounce around until they’re eventually absorbed. Just a scant 0.035 percent of visible light is reflected by an object covered in Vantablack, making it impossible to see any curves or contours—or to accurately gauge the depth of a hole if you don’t know what you’re looking at. 
 
 Descent Into Limbo debuted years before Vantablack was announced to the public, and was instead created using a dark paint that produces the same depthless, black hole effect. For at least one hapless art lover, it seems that was enough. 
 
 Advertisement 
 
 [The Art Newspaper via Hypebeast] ||||| A man sustained back injuries when he fell into Descent into Limbo by Sir Anish Kapoor, left, at Serralves museum in Porto HORACIO VILLALOBOS/CORBIS/GETTY IMAGES 
 
 All artists want their work to leave a mark on the viewer, but an installation by the British sculptor Sir Anish Kapoor has left one man needing hospital treatment. 
 
 An Italian man believed to be about 60 fell into Descent into Limbo, a dark hole like an abyss in the centre of the floor inside a large concrete cube with a single door. The work is part of an exhibition of Kapoor’s sculptures and installations at the Serralves museum in Oporto, Portugal. 
 
 The man was admitted to hospital with back injuries but has been discharged. 
 
 At previous exhibitions viewers asked whether there really was a hole in the floor or whether it was simply a circle painted with an extremely dark black paint. In 2016…