Source: Multi-News

LONDON - MPs on Monday debated a petition to ban U.S. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump from Britain over remarks on Muslims, but while describing his comments as “crazy” and “offensive”, most said the ban would go against free speech. 
 
 Members of parliament said Trump should be allowed into Britain where his views could be challenged, that a ban would give him more publicity or that it was not for Britain to get involved in U.S. affairs. 
 
 Trump caused outrage last month with his comments that Muslims should be banned from entering the United States. He spoke after 14 people died in a shooting spree in California by two Muslims whom the FBI said had been radicalised. 
 
 His comments prompted more than half a million Britons to sign a petition calling for him to be barred from entering the country, where he has business interests. 
 
 The three-hour debate saw lawmakers from all sides criticise Trump’s comments. While it was not followed by a vote, many more lawmakers spoke against a ban than for it. 
 
 “I want to see Donald Trump come to this country ... I want him to get a sense of the fury and the frustration with his xenophobic remarks,” said Gavin Robinson, a lawmaker from Northern Ireland’s Democratic Unionist Party. 
 
 Only interior minister Theresa May can issue an order banning entry into Britain and Prime Minister David Cameron has said while Trump’s comments were “divisive, unhelpful and wrong”, he does not back the idea of barring him. 
 
 Immigration Minister James Brokenshire said the government did not comment on who it was considering for exclusion but said “a frank and open exchange of views” was the most effective way to influence Trump. 
 
 “The U.S. remains our most important bilateral partner. It is in the UK’s interests that we engage all presidential candidates, Democratic and Republican, even though we may disagree profoundly on important issues,” he said. 
 
 ‘NOT WITHIN 1,000 MILES’ 
 
 “I believe it is for the American people to hold him to account. It is bad politics ... to intervene in the electoral processes of other countries,” said Conservative lawmaker Tom Tugendhat. 
 
 Some spoke passionately in favour of banning Trump however, saying he should not be treated differently from others who have been banned for similar views. 
 
 “Just think what would happen in the current climate if he came ... and preached that message of divisive hate,” said Jack Dromey, an opposition Labour Party spokesman on home affairs. 
 
 Slideshow (3 Images) 
 
 “To have someone come to our shores who demonises all of the Muslim community would be fundamentally wrong and would undermine the safety and security of our citizens and that is not a risk I am prepared to take ... I don’t think Donald Trump should be allowed within a 1,000 miles of our shore.” 
 
 Trump has threatened to cancel over 700 million pounds of planned investments in golf courses in Scotland if he is banned. 
 
 Trump International Golf Links in Scotland said in a statement: “It is absurd that valuable parliamentary time is being wasted debating a matter raised as part of the American presidential election.” ||||| MPs are to debate calls for the US presidential candidate Donald Trump to be banned from the UK following his controversial comments about Muslims, after more than half a million people signed a petition. 
 
 
 
 The government signalled last month that it would not refuse Trump entry after he was widely criticised for saying that Muslims should be banned from entering the US. 
 
 However, the call for the sanction to be imposed on the businessman will now at least have a hearing in parliament after the House of Commons petitions committee announced on Tuesday that it was scheduling a session in Westminster Hall on 18 January. 
 
 More than 560,000 people have signed the petition demanding the billionaire businessman be barred. Politicians will also discuss a separate petition opposing such a ban, even though it only gained about 40,000 signatures – well below the 100,000 threshold for triggering a debate. 
 
 Trump, who is seeking the Republican presidential nomination in the US, faced an international backlash last month after urging a “total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country’s representatives can figure out what is going on”. 
 
 Woman behind petition to ban Donald Trump from UK ‘shocked’ by support Read more 
 
 Justifying his comments, he claimed there were “places in London and other places that are so radicalised that police are afraid for their own lives”. There was no immediate response on Tuesday from Trump or his campaign to the news that the debate was to go ahead. 
 
 The prime minister, David Cameron, has condemned the remarks as “divisive, stupid and wrong” but made clear he did not support banning Trump. 
 
 The debate later this month will be led by the Labour MP Paul Flynn, a member of the committee. Its chairwoman, Helen Jones, said: “By scheduling a debate on these petitions, the committee is not expressing a view on whether or not the government should exclude Donald Trump from the UK. As with any decision to schedule a petition for debate, it simply means that the committee has decided that the subject should be debated. A debate will allow a range of views to be expressed.” ||||| For good reasons the Government does not routinely comment on individual immigration and exclusion decisions. 
 
 The Home Secretary may exclude a non-European Economic Area national from the UK if she considers their presence in the UK to be non-conducive to the public good. 
 
 The Home Secretary has said that coming to the UK is a privilege and not a right and she will continue to use the powers available to prevent from entering the UK those who seek to harm our society and who do not share our basic values. 
 
 Exclusion powers are very serious and are not used lightly. The Home Secretary will use these powers when justified and based on all available evidence. 
 
 The Prime Minister has made clear that he completely disagrees with Donald Trump’s remarks. The Home Secretary has said that Donald Trump’s remarks in relation to Muslims are divisive, unhelpful and wrong. 
 
 
 
 The Government recognises the strength of feeling against the remarks and will continue to speak out against comments which have the potential to divide our communities, regardless of who makes them. We reject any attempts to create division and marginalisation amongst those we endeavour to protect. 
 
 Home Office ||||| Image copyright Getty Images 
 
 British MPs are set to debate a petition later (16:30 GMT) calling for a ban on Donald Trump from entering the country. You'll be able to follow the debate in video and text here. 
 
 Who is Donald Trump? 
 
 A billionaire New York property mogul and former star of the US Apprentice who is the surprise front runner in the race to be the next Republican candidate for the White House. 
 
 He seems to have made a lot of Brits angry 
 
 More than 570,000 people have signed an online petition calling for Donald J Trump to be banned from the UK, more than enough to trigger a debate in Parliament. 
 
 Controversial comments 
 
 Trump's supporters love his straight-talking style. The more taboos he breaks the higher he seems to go in the polls. He sparked outrage at the start of his campaign by branding Mexicans "criminals" and "rapists". He has also come in for flak from his opponents over comments about a female Fox News presenter and a disabled reporter. 
 
 The final straw 
 
 The UK petition was launched after Trump called for a ban on all Muslims entering the US until the authorities "can figure out" their attitudes. He also claimed London had become "so radicalised" the city's police force are "afraid for their own lives" and there are "no-go zones". 
 
 Could Trump actually be banned from the UK? 
 
 Image copyright PA 
 
 Home Secretary Theresa May can - and does - prevent people from entering the UK because of things they have said. The Home Office says she does not use these powers lightly, only "if she considers their presence in the UK to be non-conducive to the public good" or if they are people who "seek to harm our society and who do not share our basic values". 
 
 Who's on Britain's blacklist? 
 
 Image copyright Getty Images 
 
 Florida pastor Terry Jones, pictured, who gained notoriety for trying to organise a Koran-burning protest, white supremacist Don Black and Safwat Hegazy, a controversial Egyptian preacher, are among those to have been barred from Britain in recent years. 
 
 What about politicians? 
 
 Image copyright Getty Images 
 
 Dutch MP Geert Wilders, pictured, who called the Koran a "fascist book" was banned from entering the UK in 2009 on security grounds. He overturned the ban on appeal and flew into Heathrow in a blaze of publicity. 
 
 What Cameron thinks 
 
 Image copyright AP 
 
 In a rare intervention in US politics, Prime Minister David Cameron labelled Trump's comments "stupid and wrong" but said he did not support a ban, saying the tycoon would "unite us all against him" if he visited the UK. 
 
 Could Monday's debate change Cameron's mind? 
 
 Image caption MPs take part in an earlier Westminster Hall debate 
 
 It's unlikely. The three-hour debate is not taking place in the Commons chamber - the place where British laws are made - but in a side chamber, Westminster Hall, and there will not be a vote at the end of it. 
 
 A ban would be 'counterproductive' 
 
 Paul Flynn, pictured, the veteran Labour MP who is proposing Monday's motion, says he does not want to see Trump banned from the UK as it would hand the Republican candidate a publicity coup. More than 40,000 people have signed a counter-petition, arguing that it would be "totally illogical" to ban Trump, which will also be debated by the MPs. 
 
 "Let me take you by the hand..." 
 
 Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Brixton, in south London, would be on Flynn's itinerary 
 
 Taking his cue from the folk song Streets of London, Paul Flynn says he would like to take Mr Trump by the hand and show him what Britain is like. He told BBC News: "I would invite him to show me where the no-go areas are in Britain and have a discussion about why in the UK we have fewer gun shot deaths per year than America has per day. Perhaps we can have a stroll down to Brixton to have a look at the racial harmony there." 
 
 British lefties lecturing the Americans 
 
 "If we are seen as a group of left-wingers opposing Trump it could have the reverse effect to the one the petitioners want," says Flynn. He says he wants to avoid interfering in US politics and will stress that country's proud tradition of free speech. 
 
 So what's the point of the debate? 
 
 Paul Flynn says he wants to give a voice to the petitioners' anger. There will be MPs who disagree with Mr Flynn, insisting a ban is necessary, and possibly some who will support his views. 
 
 Salmond v Trump 
 
 Image copyright Reuters 
 
 The big question for many on Monday, is will Alex Salmond put in an appearance? The former SNP leader has had a long-running spat with Trump, who recently called him "an embarrassment to Scotland". Trump is proud of his Scottish ancestry but his investments in Aberdeenshire and ownership of the Turnberry golf resort have created controversy. 
 
 He was stripped of his status as a business ambassador for Scotland by First Minister Nicola Sturgeon after his Muslim comments. 
 
 Speaking on Sunday, Mr Salmond said he personally backed a ban, telling the BBC: "My view is that, yes, I would probably ban "The Donald" because it would do him some good. He wants to ban all Muslims from the US. I want to ban all Donald Trumps from Scotland." 
 
 Image copyright AFP 
 
 The last word? 
 
 MP Tasmina Ahmed-Sheikh will be speaking for the Scottish National Party in Monday's debate. But don't bet against Salmond having a say also.