Source: Multi-News

× Timeline: Updates in the Aurora movie theater shooting 
 
 The following information is updated as details become available: 
 
 UPDATES: 
 
 Monday, July 23, 2012 
 
 3:09 PM: Court set up a web page for documents related to the People of the State of Colorado v. James Holmes. 
 
 2:45 PM: Booking photo of the suspect, James Holmes, is released. 
 
 2:00 PM: Lawyer for suspect’s family holds news conference in San Diego to clarify mother’s “You have the right person comment.” She was referring to herself, and not her son. 
 
 10:17 AM: We now have an 18-second video showing James Holmes’ dazed demeanor at his court appearance this morning. 
 
 If you want to watch the entire video from Holmes’ court appearance, it’s still on loop on our live stream at KWGN.com. For some analysis of Holmes’ appearance, watch Everyday, which is streaming live on KDVR.com. 
 
 10:09 AM: The district attorney’s press conference has concluded. 
 
 Carol Chambers, Arapahoe County district attorney, on Monday urged anybody who still has information that may be pertinent in the case to contact the police or the district attorney’s office. 
 
 Asked by a reporter if any medication or sedatives had been provided by the jail to Holmes, Chambers said she had no information about it. 
 
 10:00 AM: “It’s still a very active and ongoing investigation,” Carol Chambers, Arapahoe County district attorney, said Monday. 
 
 Domestic terrorism charges would not be something state prosecutors would consider in the case, Carol Chambers, Arapahoe County district attorney, said Monday. 
 
 Victims’ families will be consulted before a decision is made on seeking the death penalty for Holmes, Carol Chambers, Arapahoe County district attorney, said. That decision is months away, she said. 
 
 Carol Chambers, Arapahoe County district attorney, said “there is no such thing as a slam dunk case” and prosecutors would be working hard to prove the charges against James Holmes. 
 
 9:45 AM: Holmes’ hair was dyed a bright orange during his court appearance Monday. 
 
 Holmes’ expression has changed little during the court hearing. He has mostly been staring off into space. 
 
 9:34 AM: Formal filing of charges will be Monday, July 30, at 9:30 a.m., the judge says. 
 
 Holmes didn’t look at the judge as the hearing started, just down as he was read his rights. 
 
 James Holmes appears before Judge William B. Sylvester. He is wearing a maroon jumpsuit. 
 
 6:15 AM: Suspect James E. Holmes is scheduled to make his first court appearance at 9:30 AM today. The 24-year-old North Aurora native is being represented by Daniel King and Tamara Brady, chief trial attorney for the state public defender. 
 
 The decision to seek the death penalty will be up to the Arapahoe County District Attorney and will come 60 days after Holmes’ arraignment. The last executions in the state of Colorado occurred in 1976. 
 
 Sunday, July 22, 2012 
 
 7:45 PM: University of Colorado-Denver Anschutz Medical Campus issues alert restricting access to areas of the campus. 
 
 6:37 PM: Crowds are gathering at the Aurora memorial vigil 
 
 5:50 PM: From @PeterBurnsRadio via Twitter: 
 
 Obama talked on @JessicaRedfield’s sports passion. Was familiar with her story. Said “she was girl with passion that was going places” 
 
 Editor’s note: Jessica was a former sports intern at FOX31 Denver. 
 
 5:34 PM: #Broncos players meet with some of the hospital staff that treated victims of the Aurora shooting victims. 
 
 5:15 PM: From Eli Stokols: 
 
 Obama campaign will keep all ads off the air through the end of this week according to the campaign. Romney is following suit. Campaign says ads will be off the air “until further notice.” 
 
 5:05 PM: This coming from CNN reporter on Twitter: ‏@CNNValencia 
 
 NEW- #CNN confirms #JamesHolmes received a Natl. Institutes of Health-sponsored Univ. grant worth $26,000. Got monthly check for ~$2,100 
 
 4:50 PM: From @PeterBurnsRadio 
 
 Such a dichotomy of emotions after each Obama family meeting. Amazing celebrations of lives as well poignant issue discussions. 
 
 4:45 PM: From @PeterBurnsRadio 
 
 “President Obama has just come in and is sitting with each family individually. Amazing dialogue with each group.” 
 
 Burns is the morning radio host at WFAN and a close friend of Jessica Redfield/Ghawi. 
 
 4:42 PM: from @allisonsherry (Denver Post Washington Bureau) 
 
 We arrived at University of Colorado Hospital at 3:52 p.m. local as spectacular summer thunderstorm rolled in, thunder, lightening and some much-needed rain. 
 
 POTUS was escorted up to visit patients. From the hospital: Twenty-three patients were brought to the hospital in the aftermath of the Cinema 16 Aurora theater shootings July 20. Of those, one died and 12 were treated and released. Seven remain in critical condition and three in good condition, hospital officials said. 
 
 Not sure of the 12 which one died at University hospital. 
 
 Pool is holding in a cafeteria. Patients and hospital visitors are pressed across the glass on all floors taking cell phone pictures of all the black cars parked near the holding area. 
 
 4:40 PM: From Eli Stokols: 
 
 >First stop is University of Colorado Hospital in Aurora, where he is 
 
 >meeting with families of victims killed in last Thursday¹s tragedy. He 
 
 >is joined by Governor Hickenlooper and Mayor Steve Hogan. 
 
 >Following the meeting, the President will make a statement to the press at 
 
 the Hospital. 
 
 >a hospital spokesman says that this hospital initially received injured 
 
 >23 shooting victims. Thirteen have been released and ten remain. Of 
 
 >those, seven are still in critical condition and three are in good 
 
 >condition. 
 
 > 
 
 >The hospital is about a five minute drive from the movie theater. 
 
 4:34 PM: Members of the Denver Broncos met with victims today 
 
 3:58 PM: Report: Denver Broncos Quarterback Peyton Manning called victims of the Aurora theater shooting. 
 
 3:50 PM: Patient updates from Denver Health Medical Center 
 
 Denver Health Medical Center received seven patients from the theatre shooting in Aurora. All patients were treated for gunshot wounds and abrasions to the extremities. 
 
 Five patients have now been treated and released. Two remain at the hospital in fair condition. 
 
 1:44 PM: 
 
 Per Aurora Police: 
 
 Update regarding the Paris Street apartment address: 
 
 The law enforcement perimeter has been reduced down to include only the building located at 1690 North Paris Street. The processing and collection of evidence inside the suspect’s apartment has concluded. Security of the building is still being maintained because of chemical hazards from the suspect’s apartment. Residents are being allowed to get personal items. When it is deemed safe, they will be allowed to return home. It is not known when this will occur for certain. 
 
 Once the building is released to the residents, the suspect’s apartment will remain sealed off to maintain scene integrity. 
 
 Update regarding crime scene at theater: 
 
 The theater crime scene is not expected to be released for up to a week. This is for evidentiary purposes for case preparation. 
 
 Saturday, July 21, 2012 
 
 9:05 PM: Police are looking for a second “person of interest” in connection with the Aurora theater shooting and suspected gunman James Holmes 
 
 8:49 PM: Per University of Colorado Hospital (as of Saturday evening): 
 
 
 
 23 patients brought to University of Colorado Hospital 
 
 12 treated and released 
 
 1 deceased (our understanding is this person has been included in death toll from Aurora Police) 
 
 7 patients in critical condition 
 
 3 patients in good condition 
 
 7:17 PM: (CNN) — President Barack Obama will be in Aurora, Colorado, on Sunday to visit with victims of a shooting rampage inside a movie theater, a White House official said Saturday. 
 
 6:47 PM: Per Aurora Police: 
 
 – All hazards have been removed. 
 
 – The FBI Evidence Response Team (ERT) remains on scene processing the apartment for evidence. This will be the case for several more hours. The FBI ERT will continue those efforts tomorrow. 
 
 – The hazards have been removed and transported to a disposal site. 
 
 – All evacuated residents can return to their homes. WITH THE EXCEPTION OF 1690 PARIS STREET. This building will remain secure for the purpose of preserving evidence. 
 
 – The only remaining street closure is in the 1600 block of Paris. 
 
 3:38 PM: The Arapahoe County Coroner’s Office released the following list of victim’s names: 
 
 The Arapahoe County Coroner’s Office has definitively identified 11 of the 12 victims who were killed inside the Century 16 movie theater: 
 
 Jessica N. Ghawi (11/27/1987) 
 
 Veronica Moser-Sullivan (12/23/2005) 
 
 John T. Larimer (2/16/1985) 
 
 Alexander J. Boik (9/20/1993) 
 
 Jesse E. Childress (1/5/1983) 
 
 Jonathan T. Blunk (1/20/1986) 
 
 Rebecca Ann Wingo (10/8/1979) 
 
 Alex M. Sullivan (7/20/1985) 
 
 Gordon W. Cowden (11/17/1960) 
 
 Micayla C. Medek (5/5/1989) 
 
 Alexander C. Teves (6/1/1988) 
 
 On Additional victim, Matthew R. McQuinn (3/26/1985), has been presumptively identified, but is awaiting definitive identification. 
 
 All of the families have been notified. 
 
 As of July 21, 2012, autopsies have been carried out on all of the victims. The cause of death in all cases is related to gunshot wounds. The manner of death is homicide. 
 
 The Arapahoe County Coroner’s Office wishes to convey its sincerest condolences to the family and friends of the victims. 
 
 3:07 PM: FOX31 Denver reporter Mark Meredith tweets from a press briefing held by the Aurora Police Department: 
 
 #theatershooting shooting victims names could be released as early as today from coroners office. 
 
 #theatershooting police say it’s important that information comes out in court. The names of victims will be released by coroner 
 
 #theatershooting – someone how loud music went off in apartment of suspect. But police not releasing a theory of what shooter may hav wanted 
 
 #theatershooting – police: the gun purchases were legal. 
 
 #theatershooting – police: at this time this appears to be a state prosecuted case. 
 
 #theatershooting police: we simply hope to wrap up work at the suspects apartment in the 12-24 hours 
 
 #theatershooting – vigil planned 630-730 tomorrow – many people expected from Colorado political leadership. 
 
 #theatershooting police: aurora public schools has setup disaster recovery centers for victims and families. 
 
 #theatershooting chief says people shouldn’t be afraid – be able to go to the movies. “Colorado is a special place in how it helps victims” 
 
 #theatershooting aurora fire chief: we truly feel for the families and victims. Very proud of the firefighters of the response in last 48hrs 
 
 @KDVR online now #theatershooting briefing. “we sure as hell are angry about what has happened to our city” says police chief 
 
 #theatershooting police not ready to discuss any possible motive in case. Details will come out in court and not right now. 
 
 #theatershooting police: we think well be out of the movie theater by Monday. Suspects defense team to see it on Tuesday. 
 
 #theatershooting – police: no further hazards in theater. Personal effects being removed including purses wallets 
 
 #theatershooting POLICE: tip line working well. 84 leads from tips so far. Anyone with info 720-913-7867 
 
 #theatershooting – police: our suspect has had high volume of packages from last 4 months. Explains how ammunition got to suspect. 
 
 @KDVR #theatershooting – FBI says this was challenging for all involved. Both local and national asserts have been working on situation 
 
 #theatershooting FBI says suspects apartment was very dangerous situation. If someone had opened the door people may have lost their life 
 
 @KDVR #theatershooting FBI says most people who live near suspects apartment will be going home tomorrow 
 
 2:05 PM: From @CJose at the suspect’s apartment: 
 
 still active scene at apt. & the 4 surrounding buildings that are also evacuated. doesn’t appear families will return soon 
 
 12:48 PM: Aurora PD statement: 
 
 We have been successful in disabling a second triggering device through a controlled detonation. 
 
 Although NOT certain – we are hopeful we have eliminated the remaining major threats. 
 
 However, we will not know for sure until we enter the apartment. 
 
 Many hazards remain inside. We will continue to be at this location for hours collecting evidence and mitigating those hazards. 
 
 In the event that more triggering devices are found, there is a possibility of more controlled disruptions to occur. 
 
 11:47 AM: Emergency crews entered suspect’s apartment, which is filled with explosive devices and triggers. Disarming the devices will take place in three phases: 
 
 APD statement: 
 
 Most immediate threat was a tripwire rigged to the apartment’s door. 
 
 The controlled detonation was successful. Still more work to be done in the apartment to include dealing with other devices. There is a possibility of more controlled detonations. We will keep you updated. Streets open now. 
 
 Friday, July 20, 2012 
 
 10:20 PM: In addition to Jessica Ghawi, two additional victims have been identified: 
 
 AJ Boik (age unknown at this time) 
 
 Micayla Medek, 23 
 
 Alex Sullivan, 27, was celebrating his birthday the night of the shootings. 
 
 His family issued the following statement: 
 
 “The Sullivan family lost a cherished member of their family today. Alex was smart, funny, and above all loved dearly by his friends and family. Today was his 27th birthday.” 
 
 10:10 PM: “My heart goes out to the families and the victims,” Deborah Wood-Graves told FOX31 Denver on Friday. Wood-Graves frequently saw Holmes at a nearby store. 
 
 10:00 PM: Residents living at and near 1690 Paris Street remain evacuated from their homes this evening. 
 
 Evacuees are staying at Aurora Central High School. 
 
 7:50 PM: James Holmes’ family issued the following statement: 
 
 Our hearts go out to those who were involved in this tragedy and to the families and friends of those involved. We ask that the media respect our privacy during this difficult time. 
 
 Our family is cooperating with authorities in both San Diego, California and Aurora, Colorado. We are still trying to process this information and we appreciate that people will respect our privacy. 
 
 6:33 PM: Per the incident commander at the Century 16 Theatre, citizens will not be permitted to pick up their vehicles after 7PM. They will be allowed to retrieve their vehicles tomorrow at 9AM 
 
 6:12 PM: The Aurora Coroner’s Office said it will identify the names of the dead to families at 8 p.m. 
 
 5:54 PM: Per the incident commander at the Paris Street scene. Residents of the following addresses will be able to return to their residences to pick up emergency items, such as medicine and baby items: 
 
 11948 East 17th Avenue 
 
 1686 Paris Street 
 
 1685 Paris Street 
 
 1678 Paris Street 
 
 Evacuees should meet at Paris Elementary School (1635 Paris Street) at 7PM. They will be escorted by a Police Officer and will only have a limited amount of time to pick up items. Residents will be required to show identification and no children will be permitted to enter the buildings. 
 
 NO ONE will be permitted to enter 1690 Paris Street. 
 
 5:49 PM: “Batman” director Christopher Nolan condemns shooting in the following statement via TMZ: 
 
 “Speaking on behalf of the cast and crew of ‘The Dark Knight Rises’, I would like to express our profound sorrow at the senseless tragedy that has befallen the entire Aurora community. 
 
 I would not presume to know anything about the victims of the shooting but that they were there last night to watch a movie. I believe movies are one of the great American art forms and the shared experience of watching a story unfold on screen is an important and joyful pastime. MORE>>> 
 
 5:45 PM: Metro area theaters will have increased security this weekend in wake of Aurora shooting. 
 
 Several theaters are either discouraging or banning costumes. 
 
 5:38 PM: Hendrik Sybrandy reporting live from shooting suspect’s San Diego home. “Not clear if there were true warning signs” prior to shooting. James Holmes grew up in upper-middle class neighborhood. 
 
 4:46 PM: Authorities at the Aurora Medical Center have said the volume of patients they received from the Aurora theater shooting is the most extreme they’ve seen — more so, even, than the Columbine tragedy. 
 
 “We got more patients in a shorter period of time,” Center surgeon James Denton said. “We were better prepared for it. Some of our distaster planning and training served us well.” 
 
 Denton said the injuries ranged from gunshot wounds to the head, chest and abdomen, along with “substantial wounds to extremities.” 
 
 4:29 PM: We have a video interview with a man who shared beers with James Holmes at the Zephyr Lounge in Aurora. Jackie Mitchell called Holmes a ‘well-educated’ owner of an ‘intelligent smirk’ 
 
 3:39 PM: Police will shut down parts of Peoria Street at 6 p.m. as they attempt to enter James Holmes’ booby-trapped apartment either with personnel or a bomb robot. 
 
 3:33 PM: There is a new report out that while James Holmes may not have been dressed like the Joker, he had colored his hair read and told police he “was the Joker.” Read the story about an earlier report from the NYPD that may have been misreported. 
 
 3:07 PM: Colorado State football recruit Zack Golditch, who was slated to be an incoming freshman for the Rams this season, was the one person who was struck by a bullet in Theater 8, the adjacent theater to where the attacks occurred. 
 
 Golditch was shot in the neck — under the ear — and the bullet passed through his body. He is currently recovering at home. We will sit down with him for an interview later today. 
 
 3:02 PM: Anyone wanting to donate to victims of the Aurora theater shooting are being urged to call 303-739-6346. 
 
 2:28 PM: Bunkley Air Force Base has confirmed that one of its four missing or injured service members has died. 
 
 2:18 PM: ABC’s Brian Ross reported earlier Friday that James Holmes might be a radical member of the Tea Party organization. ABC issued the following note retracting those statements: 
 
 “Editor’s Note: An earlier ABC News broadcast report suggested that a Jim Holmes of a Colorado Tea Party organization might be the suspect, but that report was incorrect. ABC News and Brian Ross apologize for the mistake, and for disseminating that information before it was properly vetted.” 
 
 2:04 PM: A statement from the department of defense reports that one sailors has been injured, along with two airmen at the Aurora theater shooting. A fourth service member known to be at the theater is unaccounted for. 
 
 1:57PM: James Holmes did purchase the weapons he used in the attack legally, though he did not have a permit to carry concealed weapons. Also, Holmes is scheduled to make his first court appearance at 8 a.m. Monday. 
 
 1:42 PM: More information from the Medical Center of Aurora: The hospital has just received three additional patients. The Center does not currently have status on these three patients, but hope to provide that information shortly. 
 
 1:25 PM: According to the Associated Press, a federal law enforcement official said suspect James Holmes first bought a ticket to the movie, and then is believed to have propped open an exit door in the theater as the movie was playing. He slipped out midway through the showing, put on his ballistic gear and re-entered the theater. 
 
 1:00 PM: Shantyl Toledo, who posted one of the most trafficked YouTube video of victims on the scene of the Aurora theater shooting, emailed us and wanted to issue this apology. Apparently he’s taking quite a bit of heat for the video. 
 
 The apology featured many typos that we’ve tried to interpret and correct. This is the amended version that Toledo agrees captures the original intent of the letter: 
 
 “I would like to comment to the public stating my apology, if my shooting the video offended anyone. I just wanted to capture people’s fighting spirit at the scene. My heart goes out to families. I was in theater 16 and walked out of front door alive. Thank God.” 
 
 12:53 PM: Our Chris Parente has contacted all Denver-area cinemas. None are planning to cancel showings of “The Dark Knights Rises.” All are planning on having increased security on hand. 
 
 12:50 PM: Obama orders flags at half staff for the day in honor of Aurora movie theater shooting victims. 
 
 12:43 PM: Multiple coroner vehicles are arriving at the scene of the Aurora movie theater shooting. 
 
 12:41 PM: The Washington examiner is reporting that in the 1985 comic book, “Batman: The Dark Knight Returns,” there is a scene in which a lunatic kills three people in a movie theater. 
 
 12:45 PM: CU Police are clearing some buildings on Anschutz Medical Campus as a robot is about to enter Holmes’ apartment, which is three blocks away from campus. 
 
 12:32 PM: We now have video of the 3-month-old who was released from University Hospital this morning — one of the few positive stories to come out on this tragic day. 
 
 12:24 PM: We’ve found that suspect, James Holmes was not licensed to carry firearms. 
 
 12:18 PM: All of the following information comes from Aurora Police Chief Dan Oates 
 
 Suspect James Holmes, 24, of Aurora, had one traffic summons for speeding in 2011. Other than that, he had no prior criminal record. 
 
 Within one hour of the shooting early Friday morning, there were approximately 25 officers on the scene who apprehended Holmes. 
 
 There were eventually approximately 200 officers on the scene several hours later. 
 
 Holmes was apprehended with three weapons: one was left inside the crime scene. On his person, Holmes had an AR-15 assault rifle, a Remington 870 12-gauge shotgun and a 40-caliber Glock handgun. He had another 40-caliber Glock handgun in his car. 
 
 The police have no capability of estimating the amount of shots fired. There were “many, many shots fired.” 
 
 71 people were shot — 12 are deceased. Two died at area hospitals, 10 died at the scene 
 
 We are not looking for any other suspects, “we are confident that Holmes acted alone.’ 
 
 Some rounds penetrated into an adjoining theater — at least one person was struck by a bullet in the adjoining theater 
 
 The suspect was dressed in all black, ballistic attire that included throat, hand and leg covering as well as head and chest protection. 
 
 Anyone with additional information is being encourage to call a tip line at 303-739-1862. For those who feel traumatized, you can call a help line at 303-617-2300. 
 
 The crime scene is large, and includes some cars in the parking lot. The police are working to get those cars released, but “we will be (at the crime scene) for some time.” 
 
 Holmes’ Paris Street apartment is booby-trapped with trip wire, incendiary devices and chemical devises. Five buildings in the area have been evacuated. 
 
 There were four showings of “The Dark Knight Rises” at the theater. All were sold out. Police interviewed close to 200 witnesses. 
 
 Police are analyzing all social media — there are a lot of fake reports. Someone called a national media station and said he was Aurora Police Chief Dan Oates. 
 
 Police were on scene within a minute to a minute and a half of the first call and apprehended Holmes at that point. 
 
 Aurora police often station off-duty officers at the theater. They were not there last night 
 
 “We’re not going to get into why (Holmes) did what he did. We don’t have that information,” Oates said. 
 
 “There is pretty significant evidence he used the assault rifle, shotgun and handgun in the theater,” Oates aid. 
 
 Oates said that he used to work for the NYPD, but he would not comment on the NYPD report that Holmes was dressed as the Joker from the Batman franchise. “He was dressed as I described,” Oates said. 
 
 11:51 AM: Hickenlooper called the shooting an “act of a deranged mind,” in the Aurora Theater shooting press conference, which is streaming live now. We’ve also learned that the suspected gunman, James Holmes, may been dressed as the joker when he entered the theater last night. 
 
 11:46 AM: We now have a video interview with a man who was detained by Aurora Police in the Aurora Medical Center after he became enraged about the information that his 6-year-old child had been killed and his ex-wife had suffered a gunshot wound to the chest. When told that the suspected gunman was still alive, the man said “hopefully not for long.” 
 
 10:46 AM: Mitt Romney, who also cancelled his campaign events Tuesday in New Hampshire, just issued a live statement. Here are a few of his comments. 
 
 “This morning, Colorado lost youthful voices,” Romney said. “There will be justice for those responsible. But that’s another matter for another day.” 
 
 Instead, Romney said he wanted to offer these words of comfort today: “Our prayer is that the Comforter will bring the peace to the souls (of the victims and their families) that surpasses their understanding. The Apostle Paul explains: Blessed be God, who comforteth us in all our tribulations that we will be able to comfort them if they are in any trouble.” 
 
 10:27 AM: The death total has now been upgraded to 13 from 12. It had initially been reported at 14. 
 
 10:26 AM: Buckley Air Force Base confirms that the three casualties reported earlier by the Pentagon are actually injuries, not fatalities. No word on the further condition of those individuals. 
 
 10:22 AM: Of the 15 patients initially admitted to the Aurora Medical Center South, five are in critical condition. Call 303-873-5393 for a status of the patients at that location. 
 
 10:18 AM: We have now received confirmation that a 7-year-old has now been reported dead. In addition, we have learned that suspect James Holmes had no prior criminal record. 
 
 9:59 AM: We now have a 30-image photo gallery featuring everything from victims being treated on the scene to the suspects apartment and his riot gear to the plethora of police command posts that have been set up. 
 
 9:15 AM: CU-Denver Medical Campus said that suspected shooter was a student in the Fall of 2011. He was studying some form of neuroscience at the Medical Campus and withdrew in June. 
 
 9:11 AM: Police say they’ve evacuated 5 buildings near suspect James Holmes’ booby-trapped apartment. “It appears that’s sufficient at this time,” officials said. They continued to say “it could be hours, it could be days” until the apartment is ruled safe again. 
 
 9:06 AM: Police reports state the suspect in this shooting, James Holmes, moved to Colorado from San Diego to pursue a PhD. The owner of the booby-trapped apartment said that Holmes just moved in to his building. 
 
 8:58 AM: Aurora Police are saying that the third floor of James Holmes’ apartment is booby-trapped with sophisticated explosives. The entire building and surrounding area at 17th and Oswego have been evacuated. 
 
 8:53 AM: President Obama, speaking to crowd at campaign rally in Ft. Myers, Fla., offers condolences to victims’ families. He says, “There will be other days for politics. This, I think, is a day for prayer and reflection.” Obama and Romney campaigns also announce they will temporarily pull down TV ads out of respect to the victims. 
 
 8:47 AM: President Obama is speaking live now. Watch it here 
 
 8:33 PM: Morgan Freeman has released a statement via Twitter: “Deeply saddened to hear about the #theatershooting at the screen of The Dark Knight Rises. My prayers go out to the families and friends.” 
 
 8:29 PM: One of the confirmed dead, Jessica Refield, who interned here for a brief time at FOX31, wrote a blog post — now, a very chilling blog post — about narrowly escaping a deadly mall shooting in Toronto last month. 
 
 8:22 AM: Governor John Hickenlooper has released a statement. 
 
 “This is not only an act of extreme violence, it is also an act of depravity. It is beyond the power of words to fully express our sorrow this morning. Our prayers and condolences go first to the families of those killed, and we share the grief of everyone affected by this senseless event. We appreciate the swift work by local, state and federal law enforcement. Coloradans have a remarkable ability to support one another in times of crisis. This one of those times.” 
 
 8:12 AM: Children’s Hospital Colorado has received 6 victims — one child and five adults, ages 18 – 31 — from last night’s shooting at the Aurora movie theater. One patient has passed and the other five range in condition from good to critical. 
 
 8:09 AM: President Obama has cancelled his Florida campaign stop in response to the shooting. 
 
 8:02 AM: The Medical Center of Aurora received 15 patients. Call the medical Center at 303-873-5292 for information. The Center reported that 12 of the 15 patients have gunshot wounds. The three other patients had chemical exposure, and have been released. The University Hospital now has 23 patients. 
 
 7:59 AM: Watch the video of our interview with a witness who said the shooter pointed a gun in her face. She said most people in the theater initially thought the gunman was a prop — a part of the show. 
 
 7:50 AM: Of the 38 injured, nine are being reported in critical condition at University Hospital in Aurora and two are reported in critical condition at Swedish Medical Center in Englewood. 
 
 7:46 AM: We’re tracking the emotional response that’s pouring out via social media. For some of the tweets, click here. 
 
 7:40 AM: We reportedly earlier that a girl named Jessica Ghawi was reported dead along with Jessica Redfield. We’re now being told that this girl is the same person. Her mother tells us that Ghawi is her “birth name,” but that she” never went by that last name.” She always went by Redfield. 
 
 7:36 AM: Watch the emotional interview from witness Ben Fernandez, who was in theater 9, and said he saw one 12-year-old with two bullet wounds and others “covered in blood.” 
 
 7:11 AM: A 3-month-old victim was recently released from hospital. A father has confirmed his 6-year-old daughter was killed. 
 
 7:05 AM: Congressman Ed Perlmutter, whose district includes the area where this shooting took place, has just released a statement. 
 
 “I am stunned and furious at the news of the shooting at the Aurora Century 16 Movie theater this morning. Our heart and prayers are with the families and loved ones of the victims of this tragedy. Colorado is not a violent place, but we have some violent people. We are a strong and resilient community, and we will lean on each other in the days, weeks and months to come.” 
 
 6:58 AM: New photos of victims being treated on the scene can be found below. Also, President Obama will be addressing the shootings at his morning briefing at 9:20 a.m. this morning. 
 
 6:52 AM: The mother of suspect, James Holmes, is talking to ABC: “You have the right person,” she said, apparently speaking on gut instinct. “I need to call the police… I need to fly out to Colorado.” 
 
 6:47 AM: Refield’s friend is on the phone with us now on the live stream. Click here to watch. 
 
 6:42 AM: We are getting reports now that there are 38 confirmed wounded. 
 
 6:37 AM: The Premiere of the “The Dark Knight Rises” in Paris has been cancelled. 
 
 6:36 AM: Our Melody Mendez is reporting that another one of the 12 dead is Jessica Refield, a native of Texas who moved to Colorado last year. She interned for FOX31 for a brief time. Mendez said she was a huge sports fan, who also interned for a Denver radio station. 
 
 6:29 AM: Continue to check the top of this post for our most recent multimedia. The most recent is updated footage of this morning’s press conference with Aurora Police. 
 
 6:26 AM: The new full statement from Mitt Romney addressing the shooting: “Ann and I are deeply saddened by the news of the senseless violence that took the lives of 15 people in Colorado and injured dozens more. We are praying for the families and loved ones of the victims during this time of deep shock and immense grief. We expect that the person responsible for this terrible crime will be quickly brought to justice.” 
 
 6:15 AM: We’re now getting reports, according to scanner traffic, that a pregnant woman was shot in the chest. No further word on her condition. 
 
 6:07 AM: Pete Williams at NBC is sourcing two federal officials who are saying the name of the 24-year-old suspect in custody is James Holmes, of North Aurora. 
 
 6:00 AM: Very candid comments from Ben Fernandez, a witness who was in the theater. They will be up shortly. 
 
 5:58 AM: The identity of one girl killed in the attack has been released by a San Antonio TV station, KENS. That girl is Jessica Ghawi, a San Antonio native who has since moved to Colorado. 
 
 5:55 AM: Police say bodies of 10 victims are still at the crime scene inside the theater. 
 
 5:53 AM: Witness said “it was tear gas” that was used at the theater. 
 
 5:49 AM: Police originally said that there were 14 dead, that number has now changed to 12, per an Aurora Police press release. As of this moment, we have reports that some of the victims are as young as 12 years old. 
 
 5:45 AM: Multiple police organization have responded, including the FBI and ATF. Suspect said he had two bombs — one in his home and one in his vehicle. 
 
 5:43 AM: The gunman reportedly was also wearing a riot helmet and a bullet proof vest when he was discovered at his car int he back of the theater. He was also wearing a gas mask and carrying a handgun, a shotgun and a rifle. 
 
 5:37 AM: Some of the vehicles at hospital are being reportedly treated for chemical exposure. We’re told that most of the treatment is for tear gas. 
 
 Reports say that many of the dead are children. 
 
 5:34 AM: Police say that a fire alarm was pulled by an employee, which was the only reason anyone began evacuating the theater. 
 
 5:31 AM: Police have evacuated residents at the apartment of 17th and Oswego in Aurora, which is expected to be the apartment of the suspect. The suspect alerted police he has some explosives in the apartment. 
 
 A comment from a witness on the scene: “They said bullets were flying through the wall.” Then, gesturing to her friend, the witness said, “the girl that was sitting next to her got hit in the jaw.” 
 
 The bullets coming through the wall into theater 8 came from theater 9, where the majority of the shooting occurred. 
 
 5:30 AM: Chief Dan Oats of the Aurora Police just made a few brief comments/ 
 
 Oates said the suspect in custody “made a statement to us about explosive in his residence, beyond that I have nothing more to say” about the suspect’s motivations. 
 
 Oates also answered a question referring to the possibility that there was a second shooter involved in the crime: “We have not been able to confirm reports of a second person. We have no evidence to support that right now. We are obviously very concerned about that.” 
 
 5:28 AM: The Red Cross is staffing an evacuation center at Gateway High School in Aurora with four mental health workers and a mobile feeding vehicle to help care for about 100 people who were evacuated from the scene. 
 
 5:26 AM: We’re told that the attack took place during a shooting scene in the movie, Batman: The Dark Knight Rises. 
 
 Presidential candidate Mitt Romney has also issued a brief statement: “Anne and I are deeply saddened praying for families and loved ones of the victims.” 
 
 5:20 AM: President Obama has issued a statement from a campaign event in Florida. 
 
 His comments: “Michelle and I are shocked and saddened by the horrific and tragic shooting in Colorado. Federal and local law enforcement are still responding, and my Administration will do everything we can to support the people of Aurora in this extraordinarily difficult time. 
 
 “We are committed to bringing whoever was responsible to justice, ensuring the safety of our people and caring for those who have been wounded. As we do when confronted by moments of darkness and challenge, we must now come together as one American family. 
 
 “All of us must have the people of Aurora in our thoughts and prayer as they confront the loss of family, friends and neighbors, and we must stand together with them in the challenging hours and days to come.” 
 
 5:15 AM: The death toll is still standing at 14, according to Aurora Police, but police are now saying “at least” 50 people are injured. It has been reported that 10 of those 14 people died inside the theater, with four dying later at area hospitals. 
 
 A 24-year-old white male is said to have used homemade explosives in the attack. He was arrested with a shotgun, a handgun and a rifle in his possession, and he was wearing a gas mask. 
 
 If you suspect you had a loved one at the theater, call 303-739-6000 for more information. This is not an information line, but rather a line to check on possible victims of this shooting. 
 
 4:33 AM: AURORA, Colo. — At least 14 people were killed and 50 more injured in a mass shooting during a midnight screening of “The Dark Knight Rises” at an Aurora movie theater Friday. 
 
 It happened shortly after midnight at the Century 16 Movie Theaters just east of the Town Center at Aurora shopping mall near E. Mississippi Ave. and I-225. 
 
 Witnesses said the gunman came into the front of theater #9, threw a canister that released smoke, and then opened fire. people first thought the gunfire was part of the movie. 
 
 At least one person was in custody. It wasn’t known if there were more suspects. Witnesses were taken to nearby Gateway High School for questioning. 
 
 MULTIMEDIA: 
 
 
 
 Video: Investigation into suspected gunman leads to San Diego. Hendrik Sybrandy reports. 
 
 Video: In-depth coverage: Victims identified as investigation into shooting spree continues 
 
 Video: Columbine principal no stranger to tragedy 
 
 Video: Suspect described as “smart, quirky loner” Hendrik Sybrandy reports from suspect’s childhood neighborhood in San Diego. 
 
 Video: Many victims in theater shooting were kids 
 
 Video: Aurora Public Schools opens its doors to victims, evacuees (press release) 
 
 Video: Suspected gunman fits profile of a lone gunman, expert says 
 
 Video: Theaters boost security in wake of Aurora shootings 
 
 Video: Alleged gunman passed background check, legally purchased weapons 
 
 Photo Gallery: Aurora theater shooting scene, suspect’s booby-trapped apartment … 
 
 Video: Police detain man enraged over loss of child in Aurora theater shooting 
 
 Video: Man shared beers with suspect, called him ‘well-educated’ owner of ‘intelligent smirk’ 
 
 Web Poll: Should it be legal to own an assault rifle? 
 
 Raw Video: Raw Video: 3-month-old injured in Aurora theater shooting released from hospital 
 
 Raw Video: Crowd exits Aurora theater after shooting … 
 
 YouTube Video: Scene outside Aurora theater shooting … 
 
 Raw Video: Witnesses say ‘bullets were flying through wall’ of Aurora theater … 
 
 Raw Audio: Police radio communications from Aurora theater shooting … 
 
 Raw Video: Morning Aurora Police press conference from theater shooting … 
 
 Raw Video: Emotional Aurora theater shooting witness describes seeing wounded children … 
 
 Social Media: Follow the public reaction online … 
 
 Raw Video: Witness says shooter ‘had the gun in my face’ ||||| Police are pictured outside of a Century 16 movie theatre where as many as 14 people were killed and many injured at a shooting during the showing of a movie at the in Aurora, Colo., Friday, July 20,... (Associated Press) 
 
 A police spokesman says the gas mask-wearing suspect arrested in connection with a mass shooting in the Denver suburb of Aurora is a man in his early 20s. 
 
 Aurora police spokesman Frank Fania told ABC's "Good Morning America" Friday that investigators don't believe anyone else was involved. 
 
 Aurora Police Chief Dan Oates says witnesses reported the person released some type of a canister, then they heard a hissing sound and saw a gas _ and then the gunman started shooting. 
 
 Officers found the suspect near a car behind the theater and also located a gas mask, rifle, handgun and at least another weapon. 
 
 The suspect's name hasn't been released and police haven't indicated if there was a motive. 
 
 THIS IS A BREAKING NEWS UPDATE. Check back soon for further information. AP's earlier story is below. 
 
 A gunman wearing a gas mask opened fire early Friday at a suburban Denver theater at the opening of the Batman movie "The Dark Knight Rises," killing 14 people and injuring at least 50 others, authorities said. 
 
 The gunman, who is in custody, stood at the front of the theater and fired into the crowd about 12:30 a.m. MDT at a multiplex theater in a mall in Aurora. 
 
 "Witnesses tell us he released some sort of canister. They heard a hissing sound and some gas emerged and the gunman opened fire," Aurora Police Chief Dan Oates said at a news conference. 
 
 FBI spokesman Jason Pack said there's no indication in the investigation so far of any connection to terrorism. 
 
 Aurora police spokesman Frank Fania on ABC's "Good Morning America" said he didn't know yet if all the injuries were gunshot wounds. He said some might have been caused by other things such as shrapnel. 
 
 Police, ambulances and emergency crews swarmed on the scene after frantic calls started flooding the 911 switchboard, officials said. 
 
 Officers came running in and telling people to leave the theater, Salina Jordan told the Denver Post. She said some police were carrying and dragging bodies. 
 
 Officers later found the gunman near a car behind the theater. 
 
 "A gas mask, rifle, handgun at least one additional weapon (were) found inside," he said. 
 
 The suspect was taken into custody, but no name was released. Oates said there's no evidence of any other attackers. There was also no immediate word of any motive. 
 
 The suspect spoke of "possible explosives in his residence. We are dealing with that potential threat," Oates said 
 
 Police were at the Denver-area apartment and had evacuated other residents of the building. Oates did not say whether any explosives had been found. 
 
 He said police also checked for explosives in the parking lot and at the Century 16 theater and secured those areas. 
 
 President Barack Obama said he was saddened by the "horrific and tragic shooting," pledging that his administration was "committed to bringing whoever was responsible to justice, ensuring the safety of our people, and caring for those who have been wounded." 
 
 Moviegoers spoke of their terror as violence erupted and people around them fell victim. 
 
 Bejamin Fernandez, 30, told the Post that he heard a series of explosions. He said that people ran from the theater and there were gunshots as police shouted "get down!" 
 
 Frenandez said he saw people falling, including one young girl. 
 
 Jordan told the paper that one girl was struck in cheek, others in stomach including a girl who looked to be around 9-years-old. 
 
 Jordan said it sounded like firecrackers until someone ran into Theater 8 yelling "they're shooting out here!" 
 
 Hayden Miller told KUSA-TV that he heard several shots. 
 
 "Like little explosions going on and shortly after that we heard people screaming," he told the station. 
 
 Hayden said at first he thought it was part of a louder movie next door. But then he saw "people hunched over leaving theater." 
 
 The police chief said 10 victims died at the theater and four at area hospitals. 
 
 At least 24 people were being treated at Denver area hospitals. 
 
 KUSA reported that some hospitalized victims were being treated for chemical exposure, related apparently to canister thrown by gunman. 
 
 Eleven people were being treated at the Medical Center of Aurora for gunshots and ranged from minor to critical condition. Two others walked in to be treated for tear gas contamination. 
 
 Denver Health had seven victims _ one in critical and the rest in fair condition. 
 
 The youngest victim reported was a 6-year-old being treated at Children's Hospital Colorado, where a total of six victims were taken. Their condition wasn't known. 
 
 Two people in critical condition were rushed to nearby Swedish Medical Center, spokeswoman Nicole Williams said. 
 
 Aurora is on Denver's east side and is Colorado's third-largest city with 327,000 residents. It is home to a large Defense Department satellite intelligence operation at Buckley Air Force Base, as well as The Children's Hospital, the University of Colorado Hospital and a future Veterans Affairs hospital. ||||| AURORA — The family of 27-year-old Alex Sullivan confirmed Friday night that he was one of 12 people killed in the mass shooting at an Aurora movie theater. 
 
 And The Associated Press was reporting that 23-year-old Micayla Medek was also among the dead. Her father's cousin, Anita Busch, said the sad news at least brought peace to the family. 
 
 The Sullivan family was notified at 8 p.m. after they had desperately searched for Alex for more than 14 hours, a release from the family said. They said it was Sullivan's birthday. 
 
 "The Sullivan family lost a cherished member of their family today," a release from the family said. "Alex was smart, funny, and above all loved dearly by his friends and family." 
 
 Sullivan is one of 12 people killed in the rampage. Fifty-eight others were wounded, 11 critically. 
 
 Another victim who has been identfied is an aspiring sports journalist Jessica Ghawi. Reports on Twitter said that her mother was asking that anyone using the microblogging service tweet under the hastag #RIPJessica because she wanted it to trend. 
 
 Aurora Police Chief Dan Oates said about 7 p.m. on Friday that the last of the 10 bodies in the Century 16 movie complex in Aurora Town Center were removed by 5 p.m. and police hope to have identifications of the victims within the next couple of hours. 
 
 He said there were 70 casualties, including 12 confirmed dead. Two of the dead perished at local hospitals. The majority of the victims died from gunshot wounds. Many of the injuries were from bullets but a handful were the " result of the chaos and trauma in the theater." 
 
 Gov. John Hickenlooper said that as of 3:30 p.m. 30 patients remained hospitalized, with 11 in critical condition. 
 
 He called the shootings that took place during a screening of the newest Batman movie an "act that defies description." 
 
 Contact The Post If you have information or tips related to this story, please call us at 303-893-TIPS or email us at tips@denverpost.com. 
 
 The suspected gunman James Eagan Holmes, 24, was in the Arapahoe County Jail and is scheduled for his first court appearance at 8:30 a.m. Monday, according to the chief. 
 
 A prayer vigil honoring the victims was planned in Aurora for 6:30 p.m. Sunday. 
 
 Oates said the suspect is believed to have purchased four guns locally in the last two months and bought ammunition and magazines for his weapons over the Internet. With the weapons employed in the shooting — an AR-15 assault-style rifle, a shotgun and a handgun — the gunman could have gotten off as many as 60 rounds a minute, Oates said. 
 
 The chief said authorities will wait until Saturday to attempt to gain entrance to the suspect's apartment in Aurora because the scene remains far too dangerous, laced with jars full of liquid and "something that looks like mortar rounds." Aurora police are working with experts from the federal government to secure the apartment. 
 
 Oates families in four of the five apartments in the complex will be allowed to return briefly this evening to retrieve necessities such as medication, but they will be directed to evacuation centers or other accommodations for the night. 
 
 The chief said two Aurora high schools will be open Saturday beginning at 9 a.m. for mental health counseling for anyone in need of services. 
 
 James Holmes (Handout courtesy University of Colorado) 
 
 The city plans a prayer vigil Sunday at 6:30 p.m. In front of the Aurora Municipsl Building. 
 
 The lone suspect in the shooting had a ticket to the midnight premiere of the newest Batman film and entered along with the crowd, investigators believe. 
 
 Then he walked out of the theater's emergency door unnoticed, investigators said, propping it open. The suspect, later identified as Holmes, allegedly returned through the same door minutes later, clad in black ballistic gear, and opened fire. 
 
 Information about the shooter's movements was first reported by multiple news agencies citing anonymous sources in Washington, D.C. A local source with knowledge of the investigation, speaking on the condition of anonymity, confirmed the information. 
 
 A group of friends are overcome with emotion as they gather outside Gateway High School, Friday July 20, 2012, in Aurora. They got news that their friend was killed during a shooting, where about 50 people were shot 12 fatally early Friday inside an Aurora movie theater during a premiere showing of the new Batman movie, were taken to the high school by bus to be questioned by police. RJ Sangosti, The Denver Post (RJ Sangosti, The Denver Post) 
 
 Bloodied moviegoers, who had gathered at midnight to see "The Dark Knight Rises," dragged one another from the chaotic smoke-filled theater 9 of the Century 16 complex. 
 
 "It was like something out of a movie," said Jacob King, who was standing in the lobby when someone carried out the motionless body of a young girl, covered in blood. "You don't want to believe it's real, but it is." 
 
 The child was handed to a police officer, who put her into the back of his squad car and sped away. 
 
 Oates said many of the shooting victims were transported to hospitals by some of the nearly 200 officers who converged on the theater complex at about 12:40 a.m. after the shooter stormed the theater with three guns and discharged two canisters of gas that clouded the room and stung people's eyes and throats. 
 
 Police arrested Holmes minutes after they arrived at the movie theater. He surrendered behind the theater, near a white Hyundai. 
 
 The gunman shot the man sitting next to Chris Ramos, 20, in the chest. Ramos is haunted by the sight of the black-clad killer standing in the corner next to the movie screen, firing away, choosing the audience's fate with each bullet. 
 
 "No care for people's ages, or male or female, or anything," Ramos said. "He was heartless. I panicked. I thought at that moment, I was going to die." 
 
 When Ramos first saw the gunman come through the exit door, he saw objects flying in the air and thought they were fake bats, all in the spirit of the hour. Then, three rows in front of him, what Ramos described as tear-gas grenades exploded and sent out a hissing cloud. 
 
 The man next to Ramos had already been shot, and others were falling. He used his own arm to jam his head down toward the floor and grabbed for his 17-year-old sister at the same time. 
 
 "People were jumping over seats, jumping on you," Ramos said. 
 
 On the floor, they felt bodies, and as they crawled, they came across a man with a bleeding leg wound. Ramos and his sister dragged him as far as they could and were eventually met in the lobby by police officers who took over. 
 
 Jordan Crofter, 19, sneaked into theater 9 even though he had a ticket for the showing in the theater next door. He wanted to sit with his friends. 
 
 When the gunman tossed a smoke canister, Crofter didn't think about getting down or being still — he just ran. He said he was first to the lobby. Crofter said the gunman appeared lackadaisical, "as calm as can be," and didn't say a word. 
 
 "He was sitting there like target practice," Crofter said of the shooter. "He was trying to shoot as many people as he could." 
 
 A friend who had been sitting in the first row, Crofter learned later, had been shot and collapsed. He did not know Friday afternoon whether his friend had lived or died. 
 
 Three weapons were used in the shooting: a 12-gauge shotgun, an AR-15 assault-style weapon and a .40-caliber Glock handgun, according to Oates. A second Glock was found in Holmes' car, but police don't know if it was used in the attack. 
 
 The weapons were bought from two local stores of national chains, Gander Mountain Guns and Bass Pro Shop, beginning in May, law enforcement officials told NBC News. 
 
 Holmes was wearing "full ballistic gear," including a helmet, vest, throat protector, gas mask and black tactical gloves, Oates said. 
 
 Oates said investigators are not able to calculate how many shots were fired in the theater but that "lots of bullets fired very quickly." 
 
 Some shots fired in theater 9 penetrated the walls of adjacent auditoriums, hitting at least one person in theater 8 next door. 
 
 Police found Holmes' north Aurora apartment booby-trapped, the same song seemingly playing on repeat on his stereo. His building in the 1600 block of Paris Street and five buildings around it have been evacuated. 
 
 Ten people died at the scene, and two others died at hospitals, Oates said. Many others were critically injured. 
 
 One of the victims died at Children's Hospital in Aurora, but officials there would not say whether it was a child or an adult. The other five patients survived, including one who is in critical condition with buckshot injuries to the back. 
 
 Two of the victims at Children's were hit with a high-velocity rifle, perhaps from 60 to 80 feet away, emergency-room physician Dr. Guy Upshaw said. 
 
 A U.S. Navy sailor who was at the Century 16 theater at the time of the shooting is unaccounted for, the Department of Defense announced Friday afternoon. The sailor was "known to have been at the theatre that evening," the Defense Department said in a statement. 
 
 One other Navy sailor and two U.S. Air Force airmen were injured in the attack, according to the statement. 
 
 The Defense Department also reported that Holmes is not and never has been a member of the military. 
 
 Police received multiple calls about the shooting beginning at 12:39 a.m. and arrived within two minutes at the complex, 14300 E. Alameda Ave. 
 
 Police say the suspect "appeared" at the front of one of the theaters showing "The Dark Knight Rises." Witnesses told The Post he entered at the right front of theater 9 less than 10 minutes into the film. 
 
 The bodies of the 10 people who died at the theater remain at the scene while police continue to investigate. 
 
 Josh Kelly, 28, was watching the movie with his girlfriend of about four years. He lost her in the chaos. 
 
 Josh called his father, Robert Kelly, from the theater and said: "I can't find my girl." In the mayhem, the darkness and the smoke, and people panicking and trampling one another, he "just lost track and he couldn't see," the elder Kelly said. "My son is freaked out." 
 
 Robert Kelly rushed to the theater after his son's call and found him outside covered in blood. Josh Kelly's girlfriend was among the fatalities, Robert Kelly said. Josh is now at home and sedated, under a nurse's care. 
 
 Outside the back exit of the theater, FBI agents have placed yellow tape and numbered evidence markers on objects in the parking lot, including a gas mask. A bloody jacket and spilled popcorn were on the pavement. 
 
 Authorities also searched a white car parked behind the movie theater, removing what appeared to be a combat helmet, a duffel bag, an ammunition clip and a vest. 
 
 After his arrest, the suspect made a statement about possible explosives in his residence. 
 
 Police have blocked off a three-block area around an apartment complex in north Aurora. Residents in the area said they were evacuated around 2 a.m. while police searched the third floor of the apartment building. 
 
 The University of Colorado confirmed that Holmes was in the process of withdrawing from the university's graduate program in neurosciences. Holmes enrolled at the university in June 2011. 
 
 Jackie Mitchell said he had drinks with Holmes a few nights ago at the Zephyr Lounge. Mitchell said the two talked about football. 
 
 Holmes was "geeky" and had a "swagger" to him, Mitchell said. 
 
 "He just didn't seem the type to go into a movie theater and shoot it up," Mitchell said. "He seemed like a real smart dude." 
 
 But Myron Melnick, the owner of Zephyr Lounge, remembers Jackie Mitchell in the bar Tuesday night, but not Holmes. 
 
 "We were not busy Tuesday night," he recalled . "I'm there seven nights a week, seven hours a night. I've talked to my bartenders, my security people, and we've never seen the guy. 
 
 "There's maybe a 2 percent chance he was there, but I don't believe it," he said. 
 
 Corbin Dates and Jennifer Seeger were sitting in the second row of the theater when Dates saw someone in the front row answer a phone call during the opening credits and walk to the emergency door in the front of the theater. 
 
 Later, a man dressed in black and wearing a gas mask and what looked like body armor entered through the same emergency exit. He lobbed two canisters, and almost instantly the theater filled with smoke. 
 
 Dates and Seeger, like others in the theater, thought the man and the smoke were all part of the show. Just as their eyes began to tear up from the smoke, the man fired a shot at the ceiling. 
 
 The gunman moved through the crowd and stopped in front of Seeger. He pointed a long rifle at her face and said nothing. 
 
 He shot at the person sitting behind her, Seeger said. "I have no idea why he didn't shoot me." 
 
 The two dived to the ground. They could feel hot shell casings hitting their legs as the tried to crawl through the dark theater now filled with smoke. Seeger's forehead has a burn from one of the casings. 
 
 Her friends urged each other and the people around them to stay quiet, desperate not to draw the attention of the gunman who was working his way up the aisle. 
 
 As she huddled on the ground, Seeger could see bodies of women and children lying around her. 
 
 Seeger, who has some EMT training, tried to help a man bleeding next to her. She worked to find a pulse but was forced to leave him behind as they tried to flee the theater. 
 
 People tried to exit through the main entrance of the theater, Seeger said. By then the gunman had worked his way to the back of the theater, shooting at people as they tried to run. 
 
 Seeger estimates she was trapped in the theater for 10 to 15 minutes. When she finally reached the lobby, she saw a police officer cocking a shotgun. 
 
 Once outside, Seeger called her father. "My dad is not a sentimental guy, but he was crying on the phone," she said. 
 
 James Wilburn also was sitting in the second row of the theater when the emergency door opened. "He was dressed in black," Wilburn said, "wearing a flak jacket and a gas mask." 
 
 The man dropped a canister to the floor that began spewing gas before he fired several rounds toward the back of the theater. 
 
 Naya Thompson, 21, said the gas spread quickly through the theater and thinks that the gunman may have dropped two canisters. 
 
 "It was like tear gas," Thompson said. "I was coughing and choking, and I couldn't breathe." 
 
 Benjamin Fernandez, 30, said he was watching the movie when he heard a series of explosions. He said people ran from the theater and there were gunshots as police shouted, "Get down!" 
 
 Fernandez said he saw people falling, including one young girl. 
 
 Brittany Romero was in theater 10 for the 12:15 a.m. showing. When the fire alarm sounded, people began throwing their popcorn and drinks in the air, assuming it was a practical joke, Romero said. 
 
 Salina Jordan, 19, was in theater 8 and saw people fall after they were shot. She said one girl was struck in a cheek, and others were wounded in the stomach, including a girl who looked to be around 9 years old. 
 
 Jordan said it sounded like firecrackers until someone ran into theater 8 yelling, "They're shooting out here!" 
 
 The police came running in, telling people to run out. Some police were carrying or dragging bodies, she said. 
 
 Meghan Walton, 20, of Boulder said she was sitting beside her friend Gage Hankins, 18 of Ohio in Theater 8 when he was shot in the arm before he was rushed out of the theater. 
 
 "I saw a whole lot of smoke in the aisle," Walton said. "I saw about three or four bullets shot near the smoke." 
 
 Walton was with 10 members of the group Friends: Association of Young People who Stutter. 
 
 "I ran outside and was holding his arm that was shot," Walton said. "My eyes were blurred by the smoke. It was like chaos. People were crying hysterically." 
 
 She counted 12 people who were bleeding. Ambulances started arriving, but there were not enough to put everyone in them. 
 
 "The worst was a man who was shot in the head. He had his hand on his head," Walton said. "They started doubling up, putting two people in the same ambulance. One girl who wasn't injured as badly was placed in a police car and rushed away." 
 
 Police set up a command post near the Dillards department store and were interviewing hundreds of possible witnesses. Many were taken by bus to Gateway High School for questioning. 
 
 Robert Jones, 28, was in theater 9 when the shooting started. 
 
 Jones said when he first saw smoke billowing from the front of the theater, he thought it was a special effect. Shots rang out almost immediately after. 
 
 "I thought it was pretty much the end of the world," Roberts said. 
 
 Roberts stayed flat on the ground until police came into the theater. 
 
 Tammi Stevens said her son, 18-year-old Jacob Stevens, was inside theater 9 when the shooting started. Stevens was waiting for her son at Gateway High School while police interviewed him. 
 
 Jacob told his mom that he saw a guy walk into the theater wearing body armor and throw some sort of cannister that then emitted some sort of gas. 
 
 "You let your kids go to a late night movie ... you never think something like this would happen," Stevens said. 
 
 President Barack Obama addressed the shooting from Fort Myers, Fla., Friday morning. 
 
 "We never understand what leads someone to terrorize their fellow human beings like this," Obama said. "Life is very fragile, and it is precious." 
 
 The president issued a proclamation Friday, ordering that all American flags be flown at half-staff until sunset on July 25. 
 
 Gov. John Hickenlooper released a statement Friday morning. 
 
 "It is beyond the power of words to fully express our sorrow this morning," Hickenlooper said. "We appreciate the swift work by local, state and federal law enforcement. Coloradans have a remarkable ability to support one another in times of crisis. This is one of those times." 
 
 In a statement released Friday morning, presumptive Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney said that he was "deeply saddened" by the "senseless violence." 
 
 The FBI is assisting in the investigation. Officers and deputies responded from almost every local police and sheriff's department in the metro area. 
 
 The FBI said that there was no indication that the shooting has any connection to terrorism. 
 
 Victims were transported to at least six hospitals. Several of them were rushed to hospitals in police cars. Ages of people injured and killed in the shooting vary. 
 
 Shortly after midnight, patients started arriving at the Medical Center of Aurora. A total of 15 patients — ranging from 16 to 31 years old — were sent to the medical center, 12 of them with gunshot wounds. 
 
 An additional 3 patients arrived at the hospital Friday afternoon. Information about those patients was not immediately available. 
 
 Eight of the patients have been discharged, five victims remain in critical condition and two patients are being prepared for surgery. 
 
 All of the patients came in with wounds to their torsos, heads or necks. Doctors said the wounds were caused by a high-caliber weapon or what appeared to be shrapnel. 
 
 Swedish Medical Center spokeswoman Nicole Williams says two people injured at the theater have arrived at the hospital in critical condition. 
 
 She says emergency workers said there could be several more patients. 
 
 Denver Health Medical Center treated six victims from the shooting. All were treated for gunshot wounds and abrasions. Three victims have since been released, the other three remain in fair condition, hospital officials said. 
 
 A total of 23 victims were taken to the University of Colorado Hospital. Nine of the victims are currently in critical condition. 
 
 Rep. Rhonda Fields of Aurora announced that she is hosting a prayer vigil for "any and all" at 7 p.m. The location of the vigil was changed to 14701 E. Exposition Ave. 
 
 Warner Bros. studio released a statement Friday morning saying the studio is "deeply saddened to learn about this shocking incident. The studio has canceled the red carpet premier of 'The Dark Knight Rises' in Paris," The Hollywood Reporter said. 
 
 Aurora police are asking anyone with information about the shooting to call Crime Stoppers at 720-913-7867. Families looking for information about loved ones should call 303-739-1862. 
 
 Denver Post Staff Writers Eric Gorski, Kieran Nicholson, Kirk Mitchell, Michael Booth and Tegan Hanlon contributed to this report