Source: Multi-News

CLOSE Republicans took over the Senate from Democrats and captured big wins across the country in a convincing and dramatic victory in the 2014 elections. VPC 
 
 Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., celebrates his win Tuesday night in Louisville, Ky. (Photo: J. Scott Applewhite, AP) 
 
 Election night 2014 was like a tsunami, as Republicans wiped out Democrats to take control of the Senate and won governorships in states that easily re-elected President Obama. A look at some winners and losers: 
 
 WINNERS 
 
 Mitch McConnell won more than just a sixth term to represent Kentucky. He'll soon be formally elected as Senate majority leader, a job he's long coveted, and take responsibility for setting the legislative agenda. McConnell's challenge is producing results for the GOP with a Democrat in the White House. 
 
 Chris Christie wasn't on the ballot, but the chairman of the Republican Governors Association can claim victory. The New Jersey governor stumped for embattled GOP incumbents in Florida and Wisconsin, and helped candidates score upsets in traditional Democratic strongholds such as Maryland and Illinois. Not a bad start to a potential 2016 White House bid. 
 
 Rand Paul, who arrived in the Senate as a Tea Party firebrand, was a team player and worked with mainstream Republicans to bring the GOP into power. When his candidate didn't win the North Carolina Senate nomination, Paul immediately rallied behind Thom Tillis. When the U.S. Chamber of Commerce wanted to reach independent voters in Alaska, the group turned to Paul. The senator's PAC paid for last-minute advertising in key states, including in Kansas to help Sen. Pat Roberts win another term. 
 
 Two years ago, it would have seemed impossible that Mitt Romney would appear on an election winner's list. But the 2012 GOP presidential nominee was a popular surrogate in the battleground states that redefined the Senate. The former Massachusetts governor said recently he traveled to 27 states because "almost all those people helped me in 2012." 
 
 In a bad night for their party, a trio of New Hampshire Democratic women bucked the trend. Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, Gov. Maggie Hassan and Rep. Ann Kuster each fought back tough challenges to win new terms. While Rep. Carol Shea-Porter's loss means the Granite State will no longer have an all-female leadership team, the ability of these Democrats to fend off the GOP wave stands out. 
 
 Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, D-N.H., and New Hampshire Democratic Gov. Maggie Hassan wave to the crowd at a rally on Nov. 2, 2014 in Nashua, N.H., that was also attended by former secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. (Photo: Jim Cole, AP) 
 
 LOSERS 
 
 President Obama made headlines during the campaign when he said that his "policies are on the ballot." If that's the case, this was a near total repudiation. Democrats lost most of the battleground contests, as Republicans succeeded in linking their opponents to the president and his low approval ratings. Now, Obama will spend the final two years of his presidency working with a GOP-controlled Congress. 
 
 President Obama and then-Florida Governor Charlie Crist in 2009. (Photo: Joe Raedle, Getty Images) 
 
 No one will likely find their political standing more diminished than Harry Reid. His nearly eight years as Senate majority leader will come to an end. Reid, who beat back a Tea Party challenger in Nevada four years ago, could face another tough re-election fight back home in 2016. 
 
 Southern Democrats, once dominant, had reason to hope they could make inroads in 2014. Even though they were defending Senate seats in Louisiana (which will now head to a runoff), Arkansas and North Carolina, they made strong pushes in Kentucky against McConnell and in Georgia's governor and Senate races. Bill Clinton was actively involved in races back home in Arkansas. It wasn't meant to be. 
 
 Former president Bill Clinton talks with Sen. Mark Pryor, D-Ark., during a campaign rally on Nov. 2 in Texarkana, Ark. (Photo: Justin Sullivan, Getty Images) 
 
 Scott Brown and Martha Coakley: Brown was once the toast of the GOP after capturing Ted Kennedy's Senate seat by beating Coakley in 2010. But after losing his seat to Elizabeth Warren in 2012, he moved to New Hampshire and lost to Shaheen in a strong Republican year. Maybe Coakley's timing hasn't been great, but the Democratic attorney general now has lost two winnable statewide races in Massachusetts. 
 
 Charlie Crist: The former Florida governor has the dubious distinction of voters souring on him as a Republican and independent in the 2010 Senate race. Now, as a Democrat, he failed to get his old job back. That pretty much says it all. 
 
 Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1qoXG0o ||||| The GOP gained control of the Senate Tuesday night, taking hold of the legislative agenda in that chamber. Here are three of the policies Republicans are likely to tackle as they take the reins in January 2015. (Julie Percha/The Washington Post) 
 
 Elections are all about winning and losing. And there was lots and lots of that on Tuesday night -- with Republicans doing most of the winning and Democrats doing the bulk of the losing. Having dug out from the avalanche of election results and with a few hours of sleep, I came up with some of the less obvious bests and worsts of the night that was. 
 
 Agree? Disagree? The comments section awaits. 
 
 Winners 
 
 * Mitch McConnell: All this guy does is win. In a race that was supposed to be the closest of his life, the senator was named the winner of his reelection race moments after the polls closed in Kentucky. And, given the developments in other parts of the country, McConnell looks very likely to take over as Senate majority leader when the 114th Congress convenes in January. 
 
 * Chris Christie: If not for the Republican takeover of the Senate, all the political world would be talking about this morning would be the remarkable success the GOP had in the governors' contests. They won where they should have (Illinois, Arkansas etc) and where they shouldn't have (Maryland and Maine). Leading that effort as the chairman of the Reupublican Governors Association was New Jersey's Christie, who will assuredly use the showing from his side as a springboard for his own 2016 ambitions. 
 
 * National Republican Senatorial Committee: Yes, they had a terrific map. And, yes, it got better when Democrats such as Max Baucus, Jay Rockefeller and Tim Johnson decided to retire. But, they still had to go out and win it. And, after struggling to beat virtually any Senate Democrats in the past few cycles, they ousted Sens. Mark Pryor in Arkansas and Mark Udall in Colorado and might beat Sens. Kay Hagan in North Carolina and Mark Warner in Virginia. And, they managed to save Sen. Pat Roberts from himself in Kansas. 
 
 * John Kasich: The Republican Ohio governor, as expected, won a crushing victory over Ed FitzGerald, who may well have been the worst heavily-hyped candidate of the election. Winning so big in a state that is at the center of every electoral vote calculation made by 2016 strategists in both parties. Kasich has been mostly mute on his interest in running for president in 2016, but Tuesday night solidified his résumé should he decide to do just that. 
 
 * Ed Gillespie: Win or (narrowly) lose, Gillespie drastically overperformed expectations in his challenge to Virginia's Sen. Mark Warner (D). And, even if he winds up losing, Gillespie will be very well positioned to run for governor in 2017 in a relatively weak field that could include former state attorney general Mark Obenshain and former lieutenant governor Bill Bolling. 
 
 * Shelley Moore Capito: Quietly, the West Virginia congresswoman ran one of the best campaigns in the country. She easily won the race to replace retiring Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D) and will be an interesting moderate GOP voice in the Senate. 
 
 * Al Franken: The Democratic Minnesota senator won the closest race in the country six years ago, and many Republicans promised to make him a one-termer. Franken made no news -- on purpose -- and played down his former celebrity status. It worked brilliantly. 
 
 * Florida vote counting: Giant state. Fast count. Kudos for a place that has seen its share of criticism of the way it conducts its elections. 
 
 * America Rising: The Republican opposition research shop -- run by Mitt Romney's 2012 campaign manager -- proved its value this cycle. They had trackers in 36 states and unearthed some gems of opposition research on Democratic challengers, including Iowa Rep. Bruce Braley's pejorative comments about farmers and the detailed memo from Michelle Nunn's campaign about her weaknesses and their overall strategy. Oppo research isn't the sexiest part of campaigns, but it might be the most important. 
 
 * The Corys: The Senate now has two men named Cory in it: Cory Gardner (R) from Colorado and Cory Booker (D) from New Jersey. I really only made them a winner so I could link to this picture of the other Two Corys. 
 
 Losers 
 
 * Southern Democrats: Sen. Kay Hagan in North Carolina, Alison Lundergan Grimes in Kentucky and Sen. Mark Pryor in Arkansas did everything they could to run away from President Obama and insist they were their own independent voices. Ditto Michelle Nunn in Georgia. Didn't work. They all lost. And even Sen. Mark Warner, long considered to be impregnable, found himself in a tight race with former Republican National Committee Chairman Ed Gillespie. The results affirmed just how difficult it is for Democrats to win federal races in the South -- particularly in an election cycle like this one where a Democratic president is decidedly unpopular in the region. (An NBC/Marist poll released on Sunday showed Obama with a 32 percent approval rating in Kentucky.) 
 
 Florida Gov. Rick Scott (R) narrowly defeated Democrat Charlie Crist, ending a race that frequently turned nasty and personal. Crist, who served as Florida's governor from 2006 to 2010 as a Republican, was hammered repeatedly by the Scott campaign for being a political opportunist. (WSVN) 
 
 * Charlie Crist: Crist, as recently as five years ago, was the most popular politician in Florida by a mile. Today he is a two-time losing party switcher with no political future. Crist's abandonment of the Republican Party backfired on him in the 2010 Senate race, and he couldn't overcome Gov. Rick Scott (R), who was deeply unpopular in the state, as a Democrat. 
 
 Sen. Mark Udall (D) conceded to Rep. Cory Gardner (R) in Colorado Tuesday night. Critics argued Udall's campaign put too much focus on women's issues as the race tightened. (KMGH) 
 
 * Scott Brown: Speaking of two-time losers, Brown, the former Massachusetts senator, is probably done in politics after losing to New Hampshire's Democratic Sen. Jeanne Shaheen. I will always wonder why Brown opted not to run for governor in Massachusetts, a race that was quite clearly very winnable. Speaking of Massachusetts... 
 
 * Martha Coakley: It's a very, very difficult thing to lose two major statewide races in Massachusetts as a Democrat. But Coakley, the sitting attorney general who had already lost a U.S. Senate seat to Scott Brown in 2010, did just that when she came up short against Gov.-elect Charlie Baker. Might be time to find another line of work. 
 
 * Martin O'Malley: The entire race to replace Democrat O'Malley as Maryland's governor was cast as a referendum on his two terms in office by Republican Larry Hogan. Make that Gov.-elect Hogan, who pulled off the most stunning upset of the night when he ousted heavily favored Lt. Gov. Anthony Brown (D). O'Malley's 2016 presidential prospects were never great, but they took a major blow Tuesday night as he couldn't even put down a rebellion in his own back yard. 
 
 * Mark Udall: Ask any Democrat what happened to Colorado Sen. Mark Udall and they all tell you the same thing: He got caught napping. Sen-elect Cory Gardner (R) initially said "no" to the race but reversed course as the political environment faded for President Obama. Udall's strict focus on reproductive rights -- which Democrats were convinced was a silver bullet against Gardner -- didn't work. At all. 
 
 * Turnout operations: In a neutral political environment, the superior ground game can matter for a point or so. But in a year in which the national playing field is so clearly tilted to Republicans, the touted Bannock Street Project, Democrats' much-discussed turnout operation, couldn't make the difference. 
 
 Texas Democrat Wendy Davis, who faced long odds in the contest for Texas governor, conceded to Republican Greg Abbott Tuesday night, telling her supporters "your work is not in vain" during her emotional speech to supporters. (NBC) 
 
 * Wendy Davis: No one thought Davis was going to be the next governor of Texas. But, few thought the Democrat would lose as badly as she did. Davis was on track to underperform not only Bill White' 42 percent in 2010 but also, potentially, Tony Sanchez's 40 percent in 2002. For a candidate whom many saw as the leading edge of the Democratic resurgence in Texas, that is really, really bad. ||||| Some of the most intriguing races remain undecided as election night winds down. If you’ve read any headlines so far, it’s easy to see Democrats were clear losers Tuesday. But this year’s midterms were about more than who controls Congress and the candidates themselves. So, who else -- or what else -- won or lost? 
 
 The Huffington Post is taking a look at the broader picture. 
 
 Loser: Political Legacies 
 
 Despite the help they got on the campaign trail, candidates with family political legacies did not fare well Tuesday. 
 
 Georgia state Sen. Jason Carter (D), the grandson of former President Jimmy Carter, lost in his bid for the state’s governorship. Democrat Michelle Nunn, the daughter of former U.S. Sen. Sam Nunn (D-Ga.), lost in Georgia’s Senate race. 
 
 Sen. Mark Pryor (D-Ark.) had assistance from his mother and father, former U.S. Sen. David Pryor (D-Ark.), during his re-election campaign. Yet he lost his seat to Rep. Tom Cotton (R). And Sen. Mary Landrieu (D-La.) moved on to a runoff instead of winning re-election outright, despite being the daughter of former New Orleans Mayor Moon Landrieu (D). 
 
 Perhaps the brightest spot for political offspring on Tuesday was a win for Gwen Graham, the daughter of former U.S. Sen. Bob Graham (D-Fla.). She defeated incumbent Rep. Steve Southerland in Florida’s 2nd Congressional District. 
 
 Winner: Voter Disenfranchisement 
 
 Even before Election Day, voters in Texas were having trouble casting ballots because of a new state voter ID law that the Supreme Court allowed to stand. And on Election Day the reports of voters being turned away continued. 
 
 I witnessed three people turned away from the polls for having the wrong ID in just 10 minutes. One man was hopping mad. — Michael Barnes (@outandabout) November 4, 2014 
 
 The Texas law, which Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg called an “unconstitutional poll tax” in her October dissent to the court's decision, requires voters to provide one of seven types of photo ID in order to vote. Concealed handgun licenses are valid, but college IDs are not. The law’s strict provisions have led civil rights groups to argue it was designed to hamper turnout from minorities and young people, who tend to vote Democratic. 
 
 Texas isn’t the only place new laws were implemented. In all, 14 states are navigating new rules related to voting. 
 
 Loser: 'Lingerie Parties' 
 
 Rep. Steve Southerland (R-Fla.) was the first incumbent House representative to lose on Tuesday night, falling to Democratic challenger Gwen Graham in a race in which the congressman's comments about women became a major point of contention. 
 
 In September, Southerland came under fire for a men-only fundraiser his campaign had held earlier in the year. An invitation to the event told invited members to "tell the misses not to wait up." When Graham's campaign made issue of the fundraiser, Southerland replied by likening it to a "lingerie party." 
 
 The back and forth led Democrats with Graham's campaign to charge that Southerland was partaking in the so-called "war on women," and the congressman later faced attacks for his vote against reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act. 
 
 Winner: Bullies 
 
 For Rep. Michael Grimm (R-N.Y.), winning a third term was as easy as taking candy from a baby. 
 
 Vote tallies on election night showed Grimm with more than a 10-point lead over his challenger, Democrat Dominic Recchia, even though the congressman is facing a host of federal tax fraud charges and earlier this year was caught on tape threatening to break a TV reporter "in half." 
 
 Grimm will face trial in February for 20 counts of mail and tax fraud relating to a restaurant he once owned, the New York Observer reports. 
 
 Loser: Immigration Reform 
 
 Sweeping immigration reform was dealt another blow Tuesday as Republicans took control of the U.S. Senate. With control of both chambers, the GOP could pass an immigration reform bill on its own terms, in hopes it would boost the party’s standing with Latinos for the 2016 elections. If that were to happen, President Barack Obama would probably feel inclined to sign the bill. However, it’s unlikely to encompass all the changes reform groups -- and Democrats -- have been pushing for. 
 
 On the other hand, Obama has said he plans to pursue reform through executive action after the elections regardless, so Congress’ unwillingness to address the issue might not prevent it from happening. 
 
 Winner: Fear-Mongering 
 
 It’s hard to prove whether campaign tactics of fear won an election for any candidate, but it’s clear plenty of campaigns were cultivating fear about Ebola, the Islamic State and immigration, yet didn’t suffer any major retribution. 
 
 Even a GOP candidate who used an image from an Islamic State beheading in his campaign ad was polling within 15 percentage points of Sen. Tom Udall shortly before Election Day. 
 
 Loser: Independent Candidates 
 
 Even before Election Day, Maine’s independent gubernatorial candidate, Eliot Cutler, told supporters to vote their conscience when he was running behind in the polls. The statement served as a signal that he knew he wasn’t going to win, even though he wasn’t dropping out of the race. 
 
 Kansas independent Senate candidate Greg Orman, however, was in a tight race with unpopular GOP incumbent Sen. Pat Roberts as voters went to the polls Tuesday. However, he couldn’t pull out a win. 
 
 Winner: Abortion Rights 
 
 Abortion rights were upheld Tuesday as two “personhood” amendments on state ballots were rejected. 
 
 North Dakota rejected Measure 1, which would have added a statement to the state constitution that declared, “The inalienable right to life of every human being at any stage of development must be recognized and protected.” Coloradans rejected Amendment 67 on their ballot. The measure would have included fetuses in the state’s criminal code where the words “person” or “child” were used. The state’s voters have turned down personhood measures in the past. 
 
 On the other hand, Tennessee’s Amendment 1, which passed in the red state, declares that the state constitution doesn’t protect a woman’s right to an abortion or the funding of abortions. 
 
 Loser: 2016 Democratic Presidential Candidate 
 
 This doesn’t bode well for Democratic presidential hopefuls: In recent presidential elections with no incumbent, the party that controls Congress has taken the White House. 
 
 President Barack Obama was elected in 2008, while Democrats controlled both chambers. When George W. Bush was elected in 2000, the GOP had the House and Senate. Democrats ran Congress in 1992, when Bill Clinton won the presidency. 
 
 But not all hope is lost. GOP Presidents George H.W. Bush, Ronald Reagan, Richard Nixon and Dwight Eisenhower all won while Democrats controlled Congress. 
 
 Winner: Low-Wage Workers 
 
 Measures to raise the minimum wage were on the ballot in five states Tuesday. In four Republican-leaning states -- Alaska, Arkansas, Nebraska and South Dakota -- voters considered binding measures to enact hikes, while in Illinois, the referendum was only advisory. 
 
 Voters in Alaska approved a measure to raise the minimum wage to $9.75 from its current $7.75. In Nebraska, a similar push to hike the hourly wage to $9 from the federal minimum of $7.25 also passed. And in Arkansas and South Dakota, which both currently use the federal minimum wage, voters decided to change the minimum wage to $8.50 an hour. The non-binding referendum in Illinois to raise the minimum wage to $10, from the current statewide $8.25, won as well. 
 
 First and foremost, this is a win for the low-wage workers who will see more take-home pay next year. But there have been ongoing disputes over the potential long-term effects of wage increases, with some economists suggesting that they will lead to lost jobs and make it harder for low-skilled workers to find work. Others have said the overall effects on the job market will be negligible. FiveThirtyEight has a more complete analysis on how these hikes could affect the workforces in various states. 
 
 Politically, however, this could be a sign that Obama's campaign to raise the federal minimum wage to $10.10 is an increasingly popular issue that plays well in elections -- perhaps particularly for Democrats, who have stood behind the president's push. While a number of GOP candidates from the states that voted on minimum wage measures eventually announced support for those initiatives, Republicans in Congress have consistently resisted similar nationwide efforts. 
 
 Loser: Atheist Congressional Representation 
 
 Going into the 2014 election cycle, there were exactly zero admitted atheists serving in Congress. That didn't change on Tuesday night, as the most viable candidate, James Woods, a blind Democrat running in a deeply red congressional district in Arizona, failed to pull off an upset against longtime GOP Rep. Matt Salmon. 
 
 Various areligious groups have claimed in the past that there are a number of congressional representatives who don't believe in God. At this point, however, they remain unwilling to express such views in public. 
 
 Loser: Infidelity 
 
 Voters on Tuesday told the “kissing congressman” not to return to Congress. 
 
 Rep. Vance McAllister (R-La.), who was caught on tape with a married former employee earlier this year, said a couple of weeks after the video surfaced that he wouldn’t run for re-election. However, two months later, he re-entered the race. 
 
 In the end, voters decided to give someone else a shot at his seat. Although the race will go to a runoff, McAllister will not be on the ballot. 
 
 Winner: GOP Dark Money 
 
 Just five Senate races received half of all dark money spending -- funds whose sources don’t have to be disclosed under federal rules -- in the 2014 cycle. The majority of the money supported GOP candidates -- and all five of those Republicans won. 
 
 $92.8 million of the $190 million in dark money spent in the cycle went toward Senate races in Alaska, Arkansas, Colorado, Kentucky and North Carolina 
 
 As of mid-October, super PACs spent $29.2 million against Sen. Kay Hagan (D-N.C.), and she lost to Thom Tillis (R). More than $18 million went to support Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R), who won in Kentucky. Some $14.1 million was spent against Sen. Mark Udall (D-Colo.), who lost to Rep. Cory Gardner (R). In Arkansas, $10.4 million was spent against Sen. Mark Pryor (D), who lost to Rep. Tom Cotton (R). 
 
 In Alaska, $11.7 million in dark money was spent, with $6.6 million backing the winner, Republican Dan Sullivan, and $5.1 million backing Sen. Mark Begich (D). 
 
 Loser: Perennial Losers 
 
 Martha Coakley in Massachusetts, Charlie Crist in Florida, Scott Brown in whichever state he’s currently in … all lost once in high-profile statewide races, and then came back this cycle to lose again. 
 
 Brown has made history with his losses to women, though. 
 
 Winner: Legal Weed 
 
 After the passage of some state initiatives Tuesday night, recreational marijuana is on track to be legal in at least three states and Washington, D.C. 
 
 Oregon’s Initiative Petition 53, which passed, would allow adults 21 and over to possess up to 8 ounces of marijuana at home and 1 ounce when in public. Initiative 71 in D.C. also passed and would allow adults to possess up to 2 ounces and grow up to six plants for personal use. Marijuana sales would still be illegal in D.C., however. 
 
 Alaska voters approved Ballot Measure 2, which would allow adults 21 and over in the state to possess up to 1 ounce of marijuana and grow up to six plants for their own use. Marijuana paraphernalia could also legally be made and sold. 
 
 Colorado and Washington were the first states to legalize recreational marijuana in 2012. Medical marijuana is legal in 23 states and D.C., though an amendment to legalize it in Florida on Tuesday was just shy of the 60 percent approval that was required for passage. 
 
 Politicians in other states have already been talking about proposing legalization in the coming years. 
 
 Winner: Universal Background Checks For Gun Sales 
 
 Voters in Washington state on Tuesday approved a ballot measure to require background checks on all gun sales. It was one of two gun-related initiatives, with a competing proposal that would have prevented the state from imposing additional background check requirements unless first enacted by the federal government. The passage of this ballot measure comes more than 18 months after Congress rejected a federal background check measure proposed in the wake of the mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School, despite polls showing that about 90 percent of Americans supported the policy at the time. With politicians at both the state and national levels having shown little interest in gun control legislation in the period since, this small victory could suggest to proponents that their best chances of success are with voters. 
 
 The issue of guns was also on the ballot in Alabama, where voters passed an amendment to declare that every citizen "has a fundamental right to bear arms and that any restriction on this right would be subject to strict scrutiny." At any rate, Alabama is a deep red state, and it seemed unlikely legislators would have moved aggressively on any sort of gun control measure in the first place. 
 
 Loser: The Clintons 
 
 Tuesday wasn’t a good night for the Clintons, whose endorsed candidates largely failed to pull off wins across the country. Shushannah Walshe of ABC News noted their tallies on Twitter: 
 
 How did @hillaryclinton do? She stumped for 26 candidates, 10 wins, 14 losses, @ABC has not projected 1 race, and she backed Landrieu. — Shushannah Walshe (@shushwalshe) November 5, 2014 
 
 And how did @billclinton do? Out of 41 candidates, 10 wins, 21 losses, Mary Landrieu will go to a run off & @ABC has not projected 10 races — Shushannah Walshe (@shushwalshe) November 5, 2014 
 
 That said, many are expecting Hillary to focus on becoming a winner between now and 2016. 
 
 This post has been updated to include sections on low-wage workers and the Clintons, and to reflect the passage of Alaska's Ballot Measure 2 and results of Alaska's Senate race. ||||| Texas Democrats started the 2014 election cycle with a dream of turning the state blue for the first time in two decades, buoyed by a progressive hero on the ballot and an influx of outside cash and organizers. Instead, the nation's biggest red state just got even redder. On Tuesday, for the fifth consecutive cycle, Texas Republicans swept statewide offices, including the race for governor, where Republican attorney general Greg Abbott cruised past Democratic state Sen. Wendy Davis. 
 
 It was Abbott who made the decision to hire now-Sen. Ted Cruz to be the state's first solicitor general, and it was Abbott—more so even than retiring Gov. Rick Perry—who epitomized his state's antagonistic relationship with Washington, suing the Obama administration no fewer than 27 times in his first five years. ("I go into the office, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home," Abbott likes to tell Republican audiences.) Lest he be tempted to move to the center, voters also tapped state Sen. Dan Patrick to be his lieutenant governor, a position that's disproportionately powerful in Texas because it serves a dual legislative and executive function. Patrick has said that God speaks to the world through Duck Dynasty's Phil Robertson, and warned that migrants are bringing "third-world diseases" with them across the border. 
 
 Winning in the Lone Star State was always supposed to be an uphill battle for Democrats in 2014, a point that Battleground Texas, the field-organizing outfit launched last spring by a group of Obama campaign volunteers, made clear from the get-go. When Davis jumped into the race, the time-frame shifted. As the group's executive director, Jenn Brown, told me in September, Davis' candidacy settled a chicken-and-egg dilemma that had been confounding organizers: "Great people don't want to run unless they feel there's an infrastructure to support them, but it's hard to get great infrastructure without great candidates." 
 
 But Davis—and Battleground—also had the effect of throwing a football at a hornet's nest. FreedomWorks, a conservative political outfit, launched an $8-million "Come and Take It" project last year designed to thwart Democratic gains. Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), who faced minimal Democratic resistance in his re-election bid this year, nonetheless asked for donations to combat "out-of-state organizers"—and "Keep it Red." (That's not to be confused with another group, "Let's Keep it Texas Red," which was formed before Cornyn's group but which per its campaign finance report exists mainly to sell t-shirts.) Even conservative provocateur James O'Keefe—recently seen crossing the border dressed as Osama Bin Laden—got in on the action, publishing a sting video purporting to show Battleground volunteers illegally cribbing phone numbers from voter registration rolls. (The practice is not illegal.) 
 
 No one took the threat more seriously than Abbott, who warned that Democratic groups constituted "an assault far more dangerous than what the leader of North Korea threatened when he said he was going to add Austin, Texas, as one of the recipients of his nuclear weapons." He walked the walk, too, making repeated visits to heavily Hispanic, heavily Democratic South Texas in the hopes of offsetting any gains the Davis campaign hoped it could make. ||||| You can't win every vote. 
 
 Interested in ? Add as an interest to stay up to date on the latest news, video, and analysis from ABC News. Add Interest 
 
 One Kentucky voter showed his disapproval for Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell today when he ran into the senator at a Louisville polling location. 
 
 The campaign for McConnell’s opponent, Alison Lundergan Grimes, quickly turned the photobomb into a messaging opportunity on Twitter. 
 
 The tweet, which has since been deleted, can be found on the Sunlight Foundation’s archive of politicians’ deleted tweets. ||||| On a night when Republicans took over the Senate and Democrats experienced even more losses than they were originally expecting, some of the longer-term winners and losers were people who didn't have their name on a ballot. 
 
 Interested in ? Add as an interest to stay up to date on the latest news, video, and analysis from ABC News. Add Interest 
 
 Fortuitous fundraising and a focus on presidential prospects helped a few Republicans on Tuesday, while two candidates who tried to game the system -- by physically moving to another state in one race and moving to a new political party for another -- didn't work out for them in the end. 
 
 National Exit Poll Reveals Major Voter Discontent 
 
 PHOTOS: The Unusual Places Where Americans Vote 
 
 Updated Results From Around the Country 
 
 WINNERS 
 
 J. Scott Applewhite/AP Photo 
 
 Mitch McConnell 
 
 Not only was Mitch McConnell able to hold onto his job as Senator from Kentucky, but now he gets a promotion as well after Republicans were able to tilt the balance of power in the Senate. 
 
 Chris Christie 
 
 The tough-talking New Jersey governor wasn't listed on any ballots this year but, because of his role as the head of the Republican Governor's Association, he increased his national presence and has the results to prove it. With some races left to call, at least 21 of the 34 candidates that he stumped for ended up winning. 
 
 Morry Gash/AP Photo 
 
 Scott Walker 
 
 After keeping his post as Governor of Wisconsin, Scott Walker has essentially shown his critics that his constituents are fans of his attempts to break unions. This also secured his spot as a top Republican presidential contender. 
 
 House Republicans 
 
 While the Senate was the center of most analysts' attention during the race, Republicans in the House also had a good night because now their majority is even stronger than before. 
 
 Gerry Broome/AP Photo 
 
 Kay Hagan 
 
 The incumbent Democratic Senator no longer has a job, but she also lost her job in the most expensive race of the entire election. The cumulative fight between Hagan and Republican challenger Thom Tillis is estimated to have cost more than $1 million. 
 
 LOSERS 
 
 President Obama 
 
 Many are casting these midterms as a referendum on President Obama's policies and a general reflection on Americans' general displeasure with this administration. His low approval ratings and attempts by candidates to distance themselves meant that the president tried to steer clear of the campaign trail for much of the lead up to the election, but he still ended up being the biggest loser on Tuesday night. 
 
 Tom Williams/CQ Roll Call/Getty Images 
 
 Harry Reid 
 
 The Nevada Senator did not have a race to run himself but -- because of how the other races played out -- ended up losing a title out. Reid will have to hand over the Majority Leader mantle to McConnell. 
 
 Chris OMeara/AP Photo 
 
 Charlie Crist 
 
 The fan behind his podium wasn't enough to keep his campaign cool, as Charlie Crist now has the distinct honor of being considered a loser for each political party. He started his political career as a Republican, but decided to rebrand himself an Independent when Marco Rubio beat him in the 2010 Senate race. His time as an Independent didn't work that well either, so he registered as a Democrat in 2012. He lost as a Democrat on Tuesday. 
 
 Elise Amendola/AP Photo 
 
 Scott Brown 
 
 Though he never switched parties, former Massachusetts Sen. Scott Brown did try running in another state this time around, but that didn't turn out too well. Brown, who has had a summer home in New Hampshire for years, lost that state's race against incumbent Democrat Jeanne Shaheen. 
 
 Martha Coakley 
 
 The former Massachusetts Attorney General isn't going to be able to lose her unfortunate nickname (of "Choakley") after Tuesday's race. She was first appointed to fill Ted Kennedy's Senate seat after he died, but then was beaten by Scott Brown in a special election. This time around, her former foe had moved up north in hopes of friendlier folk in New Hampshire, but that didn't help her new gubernatorial cause as she still ended up losing this race to Republican Charlie Baker.