Source: Multi-News

Story highlights "We will defend our sovereignty and independence," Foreign Minister Moallem says 
 
 Four people are killed Tuesday, an opposition network says 
 
 Aid workers not able to evacuate wounded and killed journalists in Baba Amr 
 
 U.S. State Department spokeswoman constitutional referendum as "cynical" 
 
 As the death toll from Syria's almost year-long uprising continues to climb, Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Moallem vowed to defend his country's "independence." 
 
 "We are not happy to see brothers killing each other. But this is our country. But we will defend our sovereignty and independence," he told reporters. 
 
 The minister said no one is dying in Syria because of hunger or sickness and that despite the "economic international boycott," his government is providing all necessary services. 
 
 "Do you think there is a government in this world ... (that cares) about Syrian people welfare more than the Syrian government? I don't see this logic," Moallem said. 
 
 As day broke on Tuesday, four people were killed across Syria, opposition activists said. At least 144 people were reported killed Monday, including 64 who died in a "horrifying massacre" at a checkpoint in Homs province. 
 
 Those killed at a checkpoint in the Abel area were attempting to flee shelling in the Baba Amr neighborhood in the city of Homs, said the Local Coordination Committees of Syria, a network of opposition activists. 
 
 "Reports said security members and thugs kidnapped the women among them," the network said in a statement. Residents found 47 corpses in one area and 17 in a second one, it said. 
 
 A total of 68 corpses were found in the area, in farmland in western Homs province, said the opposition Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, apparently referencing the same incident. The bodies were found after an injured survivor reported the attack, the group said. All the bodies had been either shot or stabbed. 
 
 JUST WATCHED Marie Colvin's family on her legacy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Marie Colvin's family on her legacy 02:51 
 
 In all, 104 people were killed Monday in Homs, an opposition stronghold, according to the LCC. They included four defected soldiers, three woman and three children. 
 
 JUST WATCHED Discussing Syria, Iran and Michigan Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Discussing Syria, Iran and Michigan 04:49 
 
 The deaths came on a day when Syrian officials announced that the nation's new draft constitution received approval and the European Union imposed new sanctions on the country amid ongoing clashes. 
 
 JUST WATCHED Red Cross hopes to continue in Syria Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Red Cross hopes to continue in Syria 03:56 
 
 JUST WATCHED Families killed attempting to flee Homs Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Families killed attempting to flee Homs 02:08 
 
 The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said earlier explosions rocked Homs and shelling was occurring in Baba Amr. Twenty people were wounded when a large shell struck an anti-government gathering in Homs, the group said. 
 
 Meanwhile, Interior Minister Mohammed al-Shaar announced that 89.4% of voters approved the draft constitution, and 57.4% of eligible voters cast ballots. President Bashar al-Assad's regime has touted the constitutional referendum as a move toward reform. 
 
 Syria announced the referendum amid intense international cries to stop the bloodshed and open its regime to change. But analysts and protesters widely describe the effort as a farce, a superficial attempt to pacify al-Assad's critics. 
 
 "We dismiss it as absolutely cynical. ... Essentially, what he's done here is put a piece of paper that he controls to a vote that he controls so that he can try and maintain control," U.S. State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said of the referendum and al-Assad. 
 
 Syria map 
 
 She cited the ongoing violence in such cities as Homs and Hama and asked: "How could you possibly have any kind of a democratic process in conditions like that?" 
 
 JUST WATCHED The role of Syrian National Council Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The role of Syrian National Council 05:12 
 
 Aid efforts were under way in the midst of the violence. 
 
 JUST WATCHED Syria votes on new constitution Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Syria votes on new constitution 02:54 
 
 The Syrian Red Crescent and the International Committee of the Red Cross entered the province of Hama on Monday to provide aid to civilians, said Simon Schorno, spokesman for the Red Cross. A one-month supply of food, along with blankets and hygiene kits, were distributed to 12,000 people, he said. 
 
 JUST WATCHED Wounded evacuated from Homs, Syria Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Wounded evacuated from Homs, Syria 02:07 
 
 Beatrice Megevand-Roggo, the Red Cross' head of operations for the Middle East, said a handful of aid workers were also able to go into Baba Amr. 
 
 "There were four ambulances that entered Baba Amr, belonging to the Syrian Red Crescent. They were loaded with medical goods. They indeed were not able to evacuate the two foreign journalists. I don't have the reasons why. They could evacuate an elderly woman, a pregnant woman with her husband," she said. 
 
 The two journalists Megevand-Roggo was referencing were British photographer Paul Conroy and French reporter Edith Bouvier. Both were wounded in shelling. 
 
 Red Cross spokesman Hicham Hassan said aid workers were also not able Monday to recover and evacuate the bodies of two journalists killed in Baba Amr last week. 
 
 Marie Colvin, an American journalist who worked for London's Sunday Times, was killed in a shelling attack, along with French journalist Remi Ochlik. Colvin's mother, Rosemarie, said Sunday that aid workers have been trying for days to remove her daughter's body. 
 
 JUST WATCHED Syrian refugees flee to Jordan Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Syrian refugees flee to Jordan 03:42 
 
 CNN and other media outlets cannot independently verify opposition or government reports because Syria has severely limited access to the country by foreign journalists. But the vast majority of reports from the ground indicate that government forces are massacring citizens in an attempt to wipe out civilians seeking al-Assad's ouster. 
 
 No attempts at getting al-Assad to stop his regime's crackdown on dissidents have stopped the onslaught. 
 
 The Council of the European Union agreed Monday on new sanctions regarding Syria after foreign ministers met in Brussels, Belgium, said spokeswoman Susanne Kiefer. 
 
 Seven ministers of the al-Assad regime will have their EU assets frozen and will be denied entry into the EU, Kiefer said. In addition, assets of the Syrian Central Bank in the EU will be frozen. Legitimate trade will be allowed to continue, she said, but must be authorized first. 
 
 "Today's decisions will put further pressure on those who are responsible for the ruthless campaign of repression in Syria," Catherine Ashton, the EU foreign policy chief, said in a statement. "The measures target the regime and its ability to conduct the appalling violence against civilians. As long as the repression continues, the EU will keep imposing sanctions." 
 
 Elsewhere in Syria on Monday, two people were killed and eight wounded by government shelling on the village of Sarmeen in Idlib province, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said. 
 
 The shelling began Sunday night, and Syrian troops have entered Sarmeen, said Abu Mustafa al-Sayed, a Syrian opposition and community leader in the town of Binnish, also in Idlib province. The Syrian army has Sarmeen surrounded, and communications with the residents have been cut off, he said. 
 
 And in Damascus, security forces fired on mourners at a funeral, according to the Local Coordination Committees. Clashes were also occurring in Deir Ezzor, the group said, and 14 students were arrested during a protest at Aleppo University. 
 
 The opposition network estimates that 9,000 people have been killed since the government launched its crackdown in March. The Syrian government says that more than 2,000 members of its security forces have been killed by "terrorists" during that same period. 
 
 Asked Monday whether Syria would be referred to the International Criminal Court, French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said, "I hope the international community reflects on the conditions of referral. ... It's a difficult issue. Syria is not a participating state, so it's up to the Security Council to address this question. They must therefore continue to gather the elements that would permit an eventual referral." ||||| BEIRUT, Lebanon — Determined to tightly control political change in Syria in the face of an insurrection, the government announced Monday that nearly 90 percent of voters had approved a new Constitution. 
 
 Western leaders and opponents of the government called the referendum a farce and its result a hoax, while Russia and China, two of Syria’s few remaining international friends, called it a step toward reform. 
 
 The news came as activists said that scores of people had been killed across the country in the government’s violent crackdown on the opposition and in clashes between rebels and security forces. 
 
 In a news conference broadcast on Syrian state television, Maj. Gen. Muhammad Ibrahim al-Shaar, the interior minister, said that 89.4 percent of voters, or nearly 7.5 million people, backed the new Constitution in the referendum on Sunday, while 735,000, or about 9 percent, voted against it. About 132,000 ballots, or 1.6 percent, were invalid, he said. 
 
 General Shaar called the 57.4 percent turnout of eligible voters a good showing, “despite the threats and intimidation by armed terrorist groups,” as the government refers to its opponents. 
 
 In Syria, referendums traditionally produce the results sought by the government, so the huge plurality reported in favor of the Constitution was not surprising. 
 
 “For its entire existence, this regime has forged elections,” said Haithem el-Maleh, a Syrian lawyer and human rights activist, speaking by telephone from Cairo. “How can they hold a referendum in the shadow of war and tanks?” he said. “Aren’t they embarrassed?” Mr. Maleh said the people, and not President Bashar al-Assad, should have chosen the committee that rewrote the Constitution. 
 
 With opponents of the government boycotting the voting, it was possible, some Syrians said, that the government did not need to manipulate the vote totals very much; most of the people who cast ballots may well have been genuine supporters of the government. 
 
 “From the people around me, most of those who didn’t like the Constitution didn’t bother going to the polling stations,” said Amir Bitar, 29, a Christian resident of Damascus who said he voted for the change. “So it is understandable that the vast majority of those who did vote turned out to be in favor of the Constitution.” 
 
 The biggest changes brought by the new Constitution include ending the ruling Arab Baath Socialist Party’s political monopoly and setting a limit of two seven-year terms for future presidents. 
 
 Elsewhere in Syria, clashes continued Monday between the government and its opponents. Shells and rockets crashed onto the city of Homs, and activist groups said that more than 60 people were killed as they tried to flee besieged neighborhoods. 
 
 It was impossible to verify the activists’ reports, which differed on some specifics, because Western journalists are unable to operate freely in Syria. 
 
 One activist group based in Britain, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, said that 68 bodies were brought to the hospital in Homs on Monday, The Associated Press reported. Another group, the Local Coordination Committees, put the death toll in Homs at 64 and said that 135 people had recently been killed across the country, though The A.P. said the period in which the people were killed was not clear. 
 
 The referendum widened the global diplomatic divide over how to deal with Syria. Russia and China castigated Syria’s critics for suggesting that Mr. Assad must go, and rejected American criticism of their own actions, while Western leaders sharpened their language against the Syrian government. 
 
 “The referendum vote has fooled nobody,” the British foreign secretary, William Hague, said in Brussels. European foreign ministers meeting there on Monday tightened economic sanctions against Syria, adding limits on transactions by Syria’s central bank, banning Syrian cargo flights to Europe and imposing travel restrictions on several senior officials. 
 
 “To open polling stations but continue to open fire on the civilians of the country has no credibility in the eyes of the world,” Mr. Hague said.