Source: Multi-News

An American citizen on a flight from Paris to Atlanta claimed to have a fake passport and said he had explosives in his luggage, forcing federal air marshals to intervene and the plane to land in Maine, U.S. officials said Tuesday. 
 
 The officials, who spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because the investigation was ongoing, believe the man's passport was authentic. 
 
 There were 235 passengers and 13 crew aboard Delta Air Lines Flight 273, which landed safely just after at 3:30 p.m. (1930 GMT) at Bangor International Airport, Delta spokeswoman Susan Elliott said. 
 
 Federal officials met the aircraft at the airport. The Transportation Security Administration said the passenger was being interviewed by law enforcement. 
 
 After the man was apprehended, flight attendants moved passengers forward to clear out space in the rear of the plane, a passenger told CNN. 
 
 "We were told there was some danger and some threats made, but beyond that we weren't told anything else," said Adithya Sastry. 
 
 Elliott said late Tuesday afternoon that the Airbus A330 remained on the ground in Bangor but that the airline planned to continue the flight to Atlanta. 
 
 All passengers were taken off the plane because it was an international flight and they needed to clear customs, said Rebecca Hupp, a spokeswoman for Bangor International Airport. 
 
 NORAD, the North American Aerospace Defense Command, did not launch any military fighters in response to the flight, spokesman John Cornelio said. "By the time we were brought into the equation," the passenger was already under the control of air marshals, Cornelio said from Colorado. 
 
 The Bangor airport is accustomed to dealing with diverted flights. 
 
 It's the first large U.S. airport for incoming European flights, and it's the last U.S. airport for outgoing flights, with uncluttered skies and one of the longest runways on the East Coast. Aircraft use the airport when there are mechanical problems, medical emergencies or unruly passengers. 
 
 Delta, based in Atlanta, is the world's largest airline and has a joint venture with Air France-KLM on flights across the Atlantic. 
 
 ___ 
 
 Associated Press writers Eileen Sullivan and Joan Lowy in Washington, Harry Weber in Atlanta, David Sharp and Clarke Canfield in Portland, Maine, and John Curran in Montpelier, Vermont, contributed to this report. ||||| U.S. officials say they found no bomb on the Delta flight from Paris that was diverted to Bangor, Maine Tuesday after a passenger created a disturbance. Officials identified the passenger as Derek Stansberry of Apollo, Florida. 
 
 Stansberry's father, Richard, told ABC News his son is a former Air Force reservist. The elder Stansberry said he was notified late Tuesday by authorities that his son was involved in the incident. 
 
 "He's not a terrorist," said the elder Stansberry of his son. "I just found out and I am in total shock," he said. 
 
 Stansberry remains in the custody of the FBI. 
 
 Officials said an inspection of the aircraft after it landed found no evidence of explosives, as Stansberry reportedly boasted during the flight. 
 
 Play 
 
 Officials said Stansberry also boasted of having a fake passport, which they say also turned out not to be true. 
 
 Delta Flight 273 was heading for Atlanta when Stansberry reportedly made the comments that led two federal air marshals to take him into custody. 
 
 According to law enforcement sources, the incident began when Stansberry passed a note to a flight attendant that read, "Forgive me, I f---ed up, I'm sorry." 
 
 The flight attendant brought the note up to the flight deck. 
 
 One of the two teams of two federal air marshals aboard broke cover and approached Stansberry. Stansberry told the FAMs in a mutter that he had explosives in his bag. 
 
 The FAMs then subdued Stansberry. He told them he had taken a valium and a sleeping pill before the flight. 
 
 The officials said the marshals placed Stansberry's backpack and shoes in the rear of the plane and packed other luggage and blankets around them as part of a measure to minimize the potential damage from an explosion. 
 
 One official said the marshals "literally sat on the guy's chest" as the flight landed in Bangor. 
 
 Click Here for the Blotter Homepage.