Source: Multi-News

EnteroMedics Inc.'s weight-loss device uses implantable electrodes to trick the brain into thinking the stomach is full. 
 
 EnteroMedics Inc.'s weight-loss device uses implantable electrodes to trick the brain... Read More 
 
 EnteroMedics Inc.'s weight-loss device uses implantable electrodes to trick the brain into thinking the stomach is full. Close 
 
 A first-of-its-kind weight-loss device from EnteroMedics Inc. (ETRM), which uses implantable electrodes to trick the brain into thinking the stomach is full, was approved in the U.S. 
 
 The Food and Drug Administration cleared the Maestro Rechargeable System today, the first weight-loss device that targets the pathway between the brain and the stomach that controls feelings of hunger and fullness. 
 
 The system, approved for obese patients 18 and older who have at least one other weight-related condition such as Type 2 diabetes, is also the first obesity device approved in the U.S. since 2007, the FDA said in a statement. 
 
 EnteroMedics, which has been publicly traded since 2007, rose 21 percent to $1.42 at 12:30 p.m. in New York, bringing its market value to almost $100 million. The shares had declined 50 percent in the past year through yesterday. 
 
 Products to help Americans lose weight have been a hot category in the last few years, though one that has had some trouble producing major revenue. The FDA has approved four weight-loss drugs since 2012, three pills and one injection. 
 
 St. Paul, Minnesota-based EnteroMedics’ system uses electrodes implanted in the abdomen to send electrical pulses to nerves, the FDA said. Patients use external controllers to charge the device and allow doctors to adjust its settings. 
 
 Source: EnteroMedics Inc. via Bloomberg EnteroMedics’ system uses electrodes implanted in the abdomen to send electrical pulses to nerves, the FDA said. Close EnteroMedics’ system uses electrodes implanted in the abdomen to send electrical pulses... Read More Close Open Source: EnteroMedics Inc. via Bloomberg EnteroMedics’ system uses electrodes implanted in the abdomen to send electrical pulses to nerves, the FDA said. 
 
 How exactly the system helps people lose weight is unknown, the FDA said. 
 
 “Obesity and its related medical conditions are major public health problems,” William Maisel, deputy director for science and chief scientist in the FDA’s Center for Devices and Radiological Health, said in the statement. “Medical devices can help physicians and patients to develop comprehensive obesity treatment plans.” 
 
 Adverse Events 
 
 Serious adverse events for EnteroMedics’ system included nausea, pain at the neuroregulator site, vomiting and surgical complications. Other side effects included heartburn, problems swallowing, belching and chest pain. 
 
 A clinical trial of the Maestro didn’t achieve its primary objective of getting patients to lose 10 percent more excess weight than the control group, the FDA said. Still, an agency advisory panel found that data from the trial provided evidence of sustained weight loss and that the device’s benefits outweighed its risks for some patients. 
 
 Even with the FDA ruling, the Maestro faces a tough road for wide adoption. Many insurers and government health programs have refused to cover weight-loss treatments since Belviq, from Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Eisai Co. (4523), and Qsymia, by Vivus Inc. (VVUS), were approved in 2012. 
 
 To contact the reporter on this story: Anna Edney in Washington at aedney@bloomberg.net 
 
 To contact the editors responsible for this story: Crayton Harrison at tharrison5@bloomberg.net Andrew Pollack ||||| Federal regulators on Wednesday approved a novel dieting device that acts like a pacemaker for the stomach by manipulating the nerve pathway that makes people feel hungry or full. 
 
 The device, made by EnteroMedics Inc. of St. Paul, Minn., is the first of its kind to treat obesity by targeting nerves that link the stomach and the brain. The Maestro Rechargeable System would block electrical signals in the abdominal vagus nerve by... ||||| By Scott Roberts, HealthDay Reporter 
 
 WEDNESDAY, Jan. 14, 2015 (HealthDay News) -- A new electrical stimulation device designed to control obesity by targeting the nerve pathways between the brain and stomach that regulate hunger and fullness has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. 
 
 The Maestro Rechargeable System is the first FDA-approved obesity device since 2007, the agency said Wednesday in a news release. The system is sanctioned for adults with a body-mass index (BMI) of between 35 and 45, with another obesity-related condition such as type 2 diabetes, who haven't been able to lose enough weight with an approved weight loss program. 
 
 "Obesity and its related medical conditions are major public health problems," said Dr. William Maisel, deputy director for science and chief scientist in the FDA's Center for Devices and Radiological Health. "Medical devices can help physicians and patients to develop comprehensive obesity treatment plans." 
 
 The Maestro system includes a rechargeable pulse generator and wire electrodes that are implanted in the abdomen. The electrodes stimulate the vagus nerve, which carries signals to the brain that the stomach feels empty or full, the FDA said. 
 
 The device's safety and effectiveness were evaluated in studies involving 233 people with a BMI of 35 or greater, a height-to-weight measurement that indicates clinical obesity. People who used the device for 12 months lost about 8.5 percent more excess weight than people who didn't use the device, the FDA said. 
 
 The most serious side effects included nausea, device-site pain, vomiting and surgical complications. More common but less serious side effects included heartburn, problems swallowing, belching, mild nausea and chest pain. 
 
 As a condition of approval, device maker EnteroMedics must conduct a five-year, follow-up study involving at least 100 users, the FDA said. 
 
 EnteroMedics is based in St. Paul, Minn. 
 
 More information 
 
 Visit the FDA to learn more. 
 
 Copyright © 2015 HealthDay. All rights reserved. 
 
 ||||| Español 
 
 The U.S. Food and Drug Administration today approved the Maestro Rechargeable System for certain obese adults, the first weight loss treatment device that targets the nerve pathway between the brain and the stomach that controls feelings of hunger and fullness. 
 
 The Maestro Rechargeable System, the first FDA-approved obesity device since 2007, is approved to treat patients aged 18 and older who have not been able to lose weight with a weight loss program, and who have a body mass index of 35 to 45 with at least one other obesity-related condition, such as type 2 diabetes. 
 
 BMI, which measures body fat based on an individual’s weight and height, is used to define the obesity categories. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more than one-third of all U.S. adults are obese, and people with obesity are at increased risk of heart disease, stroke, type 2 diabetes and certain kinds of cancer. 
 
 “Obesity and its related medical conditions are major public health problems,” said William Maisel, M.D., M.P.H., deputy director for science and chief scientist in the FDA’s Center for Devices and Radiological Health. “Medical devices can help physicians and patients to develop comprehensive obesity treatment plans.” 
 
 The Maestro Rechargeable System consists of a rechargeable electrical pulse generator, wire leads and electrodes implanted surgically into the abdomen. It works by sending intermittent electrical pulses to the trunks in the abdominal vagus nerve, which is involved in regulating stomach emptying and signaling to the brain that the stomach feels empty or full. Although it is known that the electric stimulation blocks nerve activity between the brain and the stomach, the specific mechanisms for weight loss due to use of the device are unknown. 
 
 External controllers allow the patient to charge the device and allow health care professionals to adjust the device’s settings in order to provide optimal therapy with minimal side effects. 
 
 The safety and effectiveness of the Maestro Rechargeable System were evaluated in a clinical trial that included 233 patients with a BMI of 35 or greater. The weight loss and adverse events of 157 patients who received the active Maestro device (the experimental group) were compared to 76 patients in the control group who received a Maestro electrical pulse generator that was not activated. The study found that after 12 months, the experimental group lost 8.5 percent more of its excess weight than the control group. About half (52.5 percent) of the patients in the experimental group lost at least 20 percent of their excess weight, and 38.3 percent of patients in the experimental group lost at least 25 percent of their excess weight. 
 
 The clinical study did not meet its original endpoint, which was that the experimental group lose at least 10 percent more excess weight than the control group. However, an FDA Advisory Committee (the Gastroenterology and Urology Devices Panel) found the 18-month data supportive of sustained weight loss, and agreed that the benefits of the device outweighed the risks for use in patients who met the criteria in the device’s proposed indication. 
 
 In considering the benefits and risks of the device in its review of the Maestro Rechargeable System, the FDA considered the clinical study and the Panel’s recommendations. Additionally, the Agency looked at an FDA-sponsored survey relating to patient preferences of obesity devices that showed a group of patients would accept risks associated with this surgically implanted device for the amounts of weight loss expected to be provided by the device. 
 
 As part of the approval, the manufacturer must conduct a five year post approval study that will follow at least 100 patients and collect additional safety and effectiveness data including weight loss, adverse events, surgical revisions and explants and changes in obesity-related conditions. 
 
 Serious adverse events reported in the clinical study included nausea, pain at the neuroregulator site, vomiting, as well as surgical complications. Other adverse events included pain, heartburn, problems swallowing, belching, mild nausea and chest pain. 
 
 The Maestro Rechargeable System is manufactured by EnteroMedics of St. Paul, Minnesota. 
 
 The FDA, an agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, protects the public health by assuring the safety, effectiveness, and security of human and veterinary drugs, vaccines and other biological products for human use, and medical devices. The agency also is responsible for the safety and security of our nation’s food supply, cosmetics, dietary supplements, products that give off electronic radiation, and for regulating tobacco products. 
 
 ###