Source: Multi-News

For decades, recyclers have received 5 cents for returning empty cans and bottles. Starting Saturday, that increases to a dime. 
 
 Have some old soft drink cans lying around waiting to get recycled? Starting Saturday, those cans will be worth a little bit more. 
 
 The state is increasing the redemption value of eligible beverage containers covered by the Oregon Bottle Bill starting April 1. Bottles returned after that date will be worth 10 cents, up from the decades-old redemption rate of 5 cents. 
 
 According to the Oregon Liquor Control Commission, which regulates the bottle bill, the increase is aimed at getting more people to return empty cans and bottles. Oregonians once flocked to return cans and bottles at grocery stores, but the state has seen a steady decline in returns over the last several years. 
 
 According to the OLCC, only about 64.5 percent of consumers returned their empty bottles and cans to the state in 2015, lower than the 68.26 percent rate documented in 2014. 
 
 Under state law, if the return rate for beverage containers falls below 80 percent for two years in a row, the redemption value of those containers must increase to 10 cents per container. 
 
 The Oregon Liquor Control Commission announced the change back in July. The state has seen fewer and fewer people returning the bottles and cans over the last several years, though it still doubles the national average. 
 
 Eligible containers include water bottles, carbonated soft drinks beer and malt beverages. Starting Jan. 1, 2018, the bill will include tea, coffee, hard cider, fruit juice, kombucha and coconut water containers. 
 
 Oregon was the first state in the country to pass a bottle bill in 1971. The bill requires customers to pay 5-cent deposits on soda cans and bottles, which they can reclaim when they recycle the cans with the state, instead of throwing them away. 
 
 Only 10 states and Guam have bottle bills. Oregon will become the second state with a 10-cent deposit for all bottles and cans, joining Michigan. Most other states have a 5-cent deposit, through Maine and Vermont have 15-cent deposits for liquor bottles. ||||| FILE - In this July 31, 2015 file photo, Michael Swadberg turns in bottles at a Bottledrop Oregon Redemption Center in Gresham, Ore. Oregon was the first state in the nation to give 5-cent refunds for... (Associated Press) 
 
 FILE - In this July 31, 2015 file photo, Michael Swadberg turns in bottles at a Bottledrop Oregon Redemption Center in Gresham, Ore. Oregon was the first state in the nation to give 5-cent refunds for recycling used water bottles and soda cans more than 45 years ago. Now, in an effort to boost recycling,... (Associated Press) 
 
 FILE - In this July 31, 2015 file photo, Michael Swadberg turns in bottles at a Bottledrop Oregon Redemption Center in Gresham, Ore. Oregon was the first state in the nation to give 5-cent refunds for recycling used water bottles and soda cans more than 45 years ago. Now, in an effort to boost recycling,... (Associated Press) FILE - In this July 31, 2015 file photo, Michael Swadberg turns in bottles at a Bottledrop Oregon Redemption Center in Gresham, Ore. Oregon was the first state in the nation to give 5-cent refunds for... (Associated Press) 
 
 PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) — People in Oregon lined up to turn in their used soda cans and glass bottles Saturday, the first day of a new refund that doubled the amount they could get to 10-cents per can. 
 
 Oregon was the first state to give 5-cent refunds for recycling used soda cans and glass bottles more than 45 years ago. 
 
 Now with other recycling options commonplace, the state is working to revamp the program by doubling that refund on bottled and canned water, soda, beer and malt beverages — regardless of what their labels say. 
 
 Oregon's 1971 Bottle Bill has been replicated in nine other states and the U.S. territory of Guam. Michigan is the only other state with an across-the-board payout as high as 10 cents per bottle, although booze and other large bottles carry a 10-cent payout in California and 15 cents in Maine and Vermont. 
 
 The system was a big hit in its early years. But as curbside recycling and pickup services were brought on board two decades later — not to mention inflationary effects on the nickel's value — the rates at which Oregonians cashed in their bottles and cans gradually tumbled from 90 percent averages to less than 70 percent of all bottle sales statewide in 2014 and 2015. 
 
 That decline triggered the new 10-cent rate — a provision lawmakers added in 2011. 
 
 The higher refund took effect Saturday. Long lines were expected at the 20 bottle redemption sites across the state, and the roughly 2,000 or so grocery stores that participate in the refund program braced for a bustling weekend. 
 
 Critics say the higher amount is bad policy during a time of crisis for Oregon's upcoming budget, where jobs and taxes are on the line to help close a $1.6 billion deficit. 
 
 Oregonians cashed in slightly more than 1 billion bottles and cans in 2015, roughly two-thirds of total sales that year, according to a 2017 report to the Legislature by the state Liquor and Control Commission, which aids distributors in administering program operations. 
 
 That equates to almost $30 million in gross bottle refunds that Oregonians never redeemed, all of which stayed with local and national beverage distributors such as Pepsi and Pendleton Bottle Co., plus others who participate in the Oregon Beverage Recycling Cooperative. 
 
 Some of those funds help beverage distributors operate the program. It involves transporting recyclables to processing sites and reimbursing grocery stores, which don't make a profit but are still required to accept empty containers and refund consumers. ||||| Beverage container deposit laws, or bottle bills, are designed to reduce litter and capture bottles, cans, and other containers for recycling. Ten states and Guam have a deposit-refund system for beverage containers. The chart below contains a citation and summary of each state law. Deposit amounts vary from two cents to 15 cents, depending on the type of beverage and volume of the container. 
 
 How Do Bottle Bills Work? 
 
 When a retailer buys beverages from a distributor, a deposit is paid to the distributor for each container purchased. The consumer pays the deposit to the retailer when buying the beverage, and receives a refund when the empty container is returned to a supermarket or other redemption center. The distributor then reimburses the retailer or redemption center the deposit amount for each container, plus an additional handling fee in most states. Unredeemed deposits are either returned to the state, retained by distributors, or used for program administration. 
 
 Please see the Energy and Environment Legislation Tracking Database for more information.