Source: Multi-News

FILE- In this Sept. 7, 2018, file photo Kanye West attends the Ralph Lauren 50th Anniversary Event held at Bethesda Terrace in Central Park during New York Fashion Week in New York. President Donald Trump... (Associated Press) 
 
 FILE- In this Sept. 7, 2018, file photo Kanye West attends the Ralph Lauren 50th Anniversary Event held at Bethesda Terrace in Central Park during New York Fashion Week in New York. President Donald Trump has panned Saturday Night Live's season premiere but tweeted praise for Kanye West. As the show... (Associated Press) 
 
 FILE- In this Sept. 7, 2018, file photo Kanye West attends the Ralph Lauren 50th Anniversary Event held at Bethesda Terrace in Central Park during New York Fashion Week in New York. President Donald Trump has panned Saturday Night Live's season premiere but tweeted praise for Kanye West. As the show... (Associated Press) FILE- In this Sept. 7, 2018, file photo Kanye West attends the Ralph Lauren 50th Anniversary Event held at Bethesda Terrace in Central Park during New York Fashion Week in New York. President Donald Trump... (Associated Press) 
 
 NEW YORK (AP) — President Donald Trump has panned Saturday Night Live's season premiere but tweeted praise for Kanye West, who closed the show with a pro-Trump message. 
 
 Saturday's show opened with Matt Damon playing Brett Kavanaugh in a parody of Thursday's testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee on sexual assault claims. 
 
 As the show ended, West took the stage wearing a "Make America Great Again" hat and made an unscripted pro-Trump speech after the credits rolled. 
 
 Videos of the speech circulated on social media. 
 
 Trump tweeted Sunday that he didn't watch the show — it's "no longer funny" and "is just a political ad for the Dems." 
 
 He added: "Word is that Kanye West, who put on a MAGA hat after the show (despite being told 'no'), was great. He's leading the charge!" ||||| Rapper Kanye West got boos and jeers from the audience at “Saturday Night Live” after he went on a pro-President Trump rant during the closing credits of the season premiere. 
 
 West, wearing a red “Make American Great Again” hat and with the show’s cast standing behind him, launched into the screed off camera, but it was caught on video by comedian Chris Rock. 
 
 “I wanna cry right now, black man in America, supposed to keep what you’re feeling inside right now,” he sang as he paced the stage. 
 
 He continued: “The blacks want always Democrats you know it’s like the plan they did, to take the fathers out the home and put them on welfare. Does anybody know about that? That’s a Democratic plan.” 
 
 Then he turned to his support of Trump. 
 
 “There’s so many times I talk to like a white person about this and they say, ‘How could you like Trump? He’s racist.’ Well, if I was concerned about racism I would’ve moved out of America a long time ago.” 
 
 A smattering of applause was quickly drowned out by boos in the audience. 
 
 Rock could be heard on the video saying, “Oh, my God.” 
 
 West appeared on the show’s 44th season opener as a last-minute replacement for Ariana Grande, who canceled. ||||| Like many, I don’t watch Saturday Night Live (even though I past hosted it) - no longer funny, no talent or charm. It is just a political ad for the Dems. Word is that Kanye West, who put on a MAGA hat after the show (despite being told “no”), was great. He’s leading the charge! ||||| The rapper, sporting a Make America Great Again hat, called for more open political dialogue and hinted at a 2020 run. 
 
 During the 44th season premiere of NBC's Saturday Night Live on Saturday, musical guest Kanye West gave a pro-Trump speech while wearing a Make America Great Again hat in a speech made after the TV broadcast ended. 
 
 “There’s so many times I talked to a white person about this and they’re like, ‘How can you like Trump, he’s racist?’ Well, if I was concerned about racism I would have moved out of America a long time ago,” West said to the crowd at Studio 8H in New York, eliciting several claps and a number of boos. 
 
 "You’ve got a situation where you need to have a dialogue and not a diatribe...It’s easy to make it seem like it's so, so, so one-sided," West said in his speech. 
 
 West also briefly alluded to plans of running for political office in 2020. 
 
 His speech was filmed and posted to Instagram by comedian Chris Rock, who was in the crowd at the taping. 
 
 Looks like we missed a lot after the credits 
 
 
 
 Kanye is back to talking about running for president in 2020. 
 
 
 
 : @chrisrock pic.twitter.com/yObaal85CA — Complex Music (@ComplexMusic) September 30, 2018 
 
 The rapper delivered the comments after a final performance following the cast's sign-off. He was given extra time to perform a third song and when the broadcast ended, West invited the cast back onstage. When he began speaking, the moment made the cast uncomfortable, says a show insider — something that could be seen in the videos posted on social media. The insider said the cast returned to the stage assuming they would be dancing for his performance and what transpired was "unfair." 
 
 During his speech from the SNL stage, West said he was "bullied" backstage before coming out in his MAGA hat. "You see they're laughing at me, they screamed at me," West said onstage. "They said, 'Don't go out there with that hat on.' They bullied me backstage. They bullied me! And then they say I'm in a sunken place. You want to see the sunken place? Okay, I'm going to listen to y'all now, or I'm going to put my Superman cape on," he said, replacing his MAGA cap. "This means you can't tell me what to do." 
 
 West went on to say: "Follow your heart and stop following your mind. That's how we're controlled. That's how we're programmed. If you want the world to move forward, try love." 
 
 The insider refuted West's "bullied" claim. West also wore the MAGA hat in promos leading up to the premiere with host Adam Driver and castmember Kenan Thompson, and in show photos leading up to his performance that aired during the broadcast. 
 
 SNL goes off the air at 1 a.m. and West began his speech several minutes after 1 a.m., said the insider about why the moment didn't make it to air. 
 
 KANYE SNL TALK THAT GOT CUT OFF FREEDOM OF SPEECH SHOULD HAVE EXTENDED pic.twitter.com/IpULoEJxsN — MIKE DEAN! #MWA (@therealmikedean) September 30, 2018 
 
 On Sunday morning, President Donald Trump responded to West's performance on Twitter: "Like many, I don’t watch Saturday Night Live (even though I past hosted it) - no longer funny, no talent or charm. It is just a political ad for the Dems. Word is that Kanye West, who put on a MAGA hat after the show (despite being told “no”), was great. He’s leading the charge!" 
 
 Trump has not been shy about criticizing SNL in the past. The president has been strongly critical of Alec Baldwin's impersonation of him on the program, saying, "Alec Baldwin, whose dying mediocre career was saved by his terrible impersonation of me on SNL, now says playing me was agony. Alec, it was agony for those who were forced to watch." 
 
 The rapper had previously voiced support for Trump, tweeting a picture of a MAGA hat he owned signed by the president and declaring they both had similar "dragon energy." 
 
 "Just as a musician, African-American, everyone around me tried to pick my candidate for me and then told me that I couldn't say that I like Trump," West told late-night host Jimmy Kimmel earlier this year. West also took issue with the notion that "blacks can only be Democrats," an adage that fellow Chicago musician Chance the Rapper echoed on Twitter in April. 
 
 Trump, at the time, responded to West's support by thanking the rapper via Twitter. 
 
 Jackie Strause contributed to this story. 
 
 Oct. 1., 9: 30 a.m. This story has been updated with additional details of West's performance.