Source: Multi-News

This image provided Wednesday, Aug. 24, 2016, by RR Auction of Boston shows the last page of an April 1934 letter from Depression-era gangsters Bonnie and Clyde to a former member of their gang they felt... (Associated Press) 
 
 This image provided Wednesday, Aug. 24, 2016, by RR Auction of Boston shows the last page of an April 1934 letter from Depression-era gangsters Bonnie and Clyde to a former member of their gang they felt had betrayed them. The letter, written in Bonnie Parker's neat cursive and signed by Clyde Barrow,... (Associated Press) 
 
 BOSTON (AP) — Bonnie and Clyde made it quite clear how they felt about a former member of their gang in a letter they sent to him as he sat in the Dallas County Jail. 
 
 He was a coward, they wrote, and they should have killed him when they had the chance. 
 
 The four-page letter to Raymond Hamilton was written in April 1934 in Bonnie Parker's neat cursive and signed by Clyde Barrow. It could fetch more than $40,000 when it's sold next month by Boston-based RR Auction, said the auction house's executive vice president, Robert Livingston. 
 
 Based on the language, experts think Barrow, who had poor writing skills, likely dictated the letter to Parker, Livingston said Wednesday. 
 
 The couple was livid with Hamilton, in part because of a disagreement over how to split $4,000 stolen from a Texas bank just two months earlier. 
 
 "I should have killed you then I would have saved myself much bother and money looking for you," reads the letter, which is full of 1930s gangster jargon. 
 
 The letter also says Hamilton is "yellow," pointing out that he was captured without resistance and based on the way he acted during a narrow escape from a police road block in Missouri. 
 
 "The next impression was when we got the road 'blocked' on us in the Ozarks and you were too 'yellow' to fight. You cowered in the floorboard, afraid of being shot," the letter reads. 
 
 It also contains a prescient line about Bonnie and Clyde's own demise only a month later, when they were killed in a law enforcement ambush in Louisiana. 
 
 "I know that some day they will get me but it won't be without resistance," the letter reads. 
 
 It ends: "I hope this will serve the purpose of letting you know that you can never expect the least of sympathy or assistance from me. So long." 
 
 There is still intense interest in Bonnie and Clyde, who were almost glorified in their day before the public turned against them after they were linked to the murder of two police officers, Livingston said. Two pistols recovered from the bodies of the infamous outlaw couple were sold by RR in 2012 for more than $500,000. 
 
 It's unclear if Hamilton ever saw the letter, Livingston said. It was intercepted by Sheriff Richard "Smoot" Schmid, who shared it with newspapers several months later. It remained in his family's possession until they decided to auction it. 
 
 "Every line in this letter is remarkable," Livingston said. "It's one of a kind." 
 
 ___ 
 
 Online: www.rrauction.com ||||| Clyde Barrow wanted Raymond Hamilton dead. And Barrow wanted Hamilton to know it. 
 
 Hamilton split with the infamous Barrow gang of Dallas after an apparent dispute over Hamilton's girlfriend. And Hamilton wrote a letter in April 1934 to his lawyer, claiming that he was actually a gentleman bandit and had nothing to do with all the death and destruction wrought by Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow. 
 
 Barrow, who couldn't write well, had Parker pen a letter to Hamilton in which he called Hamilton's girlfriend a "prostitute sweetheart." Barrow also said he "should have killed" the "yellow" Hamilton when he had the chance. 
 
 The four-page letter, sent to Hamilton at the Dallas County jail, will be put up for auction in late September in Boston. The note is filled with 1930s gangster lingo and anger directed at their old sidekick. 
 
 "I know that some day they will get me but it won't be without resistance," Barrow told Hamilton in the letter. "Maybe you can talk yourself out of the 'chair.' Or maybe you can write a few more letters (try one to the governor) at least it will gain you some publicity." 
 
 A law enforcement ambush killed Bonnie and Clyde about a month after the letter was written, and Hamilton couldn't talk his way out of the electric chair. He was executed in 1935. 
 
 Dallas County Sheriff Richard "Smoot" Schmid intercepted the letter on its way to the jail and later made it public. But Schmid's family kept the original letter in a family scrapbook for years before they decided to auction it. 
 
 Bobby Livingston, executive vice president of RR Auction in Boston, said the letter evokes imagery of Bonnie and Clyde consumed with revenge on Hamilton while evading law enforcement. As public opinion had turned against the couple after they killed two police officers in Grapevine, the pair cast Hamilton as a man who toted a gun only to "'show off' or else kidnap women and children." 
 
 "Every single line in that letter is just brimming with content that any collector of any genre of letters, this would be the letter to have," Livingston said. "If you're enamored by the story of Bonnie and Clyde, here it is." 
 
 
 
 Other Bonnie and Clyde memorabilia has sold for tens of thousands in recent years. Two of their guns were auctioned in 2012 for more than $500,000. 
 
 
 
 Livingston believes the letter could sell for over $40,000. Adjusted for inflation, that's still less than the $4,000 the Barrow gang stole in a Lancaster bank job, which sparked the split with Hamilton. But it's a good take for four pages of blue ink in cursive. 
 
 "It's unbelievable what things go for," said Perry Carver, who runs the Bonnie and Clyde Ambush Museum in Gibsland, La. 
 
 Carver took over the museum last year from Linton "Boots" Hinton, whose father, Ted, was a Dallas County sheriff's deputy and part of the law enforcement posse that killed Bonnie and Clyde. The museum is at the site of Bonnie and Clyde's last known meal. 
 
 Carver, who used to play as a child in Atlanta in the car where Bonnie and Clyde were killed, said interest remains high in the couple, who met in West Dallas in 1930. 
 
 Barrow, hardened by his time in the state's notorious Eastham prison unit, captured the country's attention because of his relationship with Parker. It also helped that the two targeted banks, seen as villainous during the Great Depression. The outlaws' crime spree later became enshrined in pop culture lore after the 1967 movie Bonnie and Clyde, starring Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway as the title characters. 
 
 But Barrow's nephew, Buddy Barrow Williams, said his father, L.C. Barrow, never talked about Bonnie and Clyde when Buddy was growing up. Although L.C. was close to his brother, his family avoided the limelight and the shame that came from being a Barrow. 
 
 "The older generation who grew up with this ... that generation didn't want no part of it," said Barrow Williams, who lives in Sunnyvale. "Every 20 years, you got a new generation. Then they brought the '67 movie, and then there was more curiosity. I guess they just fell in love with the story of two people falling in love and being willing to die for each other." 
 
 And they did. But not before the two bid Hamilton, whom they once busted out of jail, a less-than-fond farewell. 
 
 "I hope this will serve the purpose of letting you know that you can never expect the least of sympathy or assistance from me," Barrow wrote in Parker's writing. "So long." 
 
 On Twitter: 
 
 @TristanHallman ||||| (Originally published by the Daily News on April 22, 1934. This story was written by Virgil S. Beck.) 
 
 DALLAS, TEX., April 21. — The staccato rattle of a machine gun echoes. An officer of the law or a shopkeeper stumbles to die in a pool of his own blood. An automobile roars away with the occupants cursing or laughing. In the madly driven car a short, lean, thin-faced youth, his black hair slicked back, grip the handle of a machine gun. At his side, a rather pretty red-haired girl, often with a large black cigar gripped between her teeth, fingers the trigger of another tommy gun as she glances back for signs of pursuit. 
 
 This tragic scene has just been enacted in the Southwest for the ninth time in the last two years. The locale this time was Miami, Okla. The victim was Constable Cal Campbell, 63, who made the mistake on April 6, 1934, of questioning the occupants of an auto mired in the mud. The scene had been enacted at least eight times before, with minor variations. 
 
 The thin-faced youth in the car was Clyde Barrow, the Texas Rattlesnake, wanted for nine murders and countless bank robberies, store holdups, and machine gun battles with the law. 
 
 His girl companion, who is charged with almost as many crimes as Barrow, was his sweetheart, Bonnie Parker. The titian-haired gun girl, who is an expert with machine gun, rifle and pistols, has a fondness for strong black cigars which has led to her identification in many crimes. It is Bonnie who usually covers the retreat with a machine gun as Clyde handles the wheel. 
 
 Bonnie is very proud of her record as a gun moll, but she resents the belief that she smokes cigars. She made her denial to Percy Boyd, Chief of Police of Commerce, Okla., who was kidnaped by Barrow and Bonnie after the slaying of Constable Campbell. “No nice girl smokes,” said Bonnie. But she did not explain the many pictures of her with a machine gun in her hands and a long black cigar in her lips. 
 
 The daring delivery of five convicts from the Eastham prison farm near Huntsville, Tex., last Jan. 16 by Barrow and Bonnie caused the State Legislature to offer a $1,000 reward for the capture of “the most dangerous desperado of the Middle West.” 
 
 Included in the quintet of liberated prisoners was Raymond Hamilton, 20, companion in crime of Barrow and his gun moll, who was under sentences totaling 262 years. The Legislature has appropriated a $500 reward for the capture of Hamilton, and another $500 for apprehension of Joe Palmer, one of the fugitive convicts who killed a prison guard during the daring escape. 
 
 During the last two years Barrow and Bonnie Parker, with their various companions, have established a criminal record that eclipses even that of Pretty Boy Floyd and the other noted bad men of Southwest. And this elusive, youthful bandit couple — Barrow is 23 and Bonnie is only 19 — boast that they will not be taken alive. 
 
 They have murdered, assaulted, robbed, kidnaped, looted and shot their way out of police traps throughout Texas and in Oklahoma, Arkansas, Iowa, Missouri, Louisiana, Illinois, Ohio, New Mexico, Indiana and probably other States. 
 
 Clyde and Bonnie Called “A Pair of Human Rats.” 
 
 New York Daily News published this on April 22, 1934. (New York Daily News) New York Daily News published this on April 22, 1934. (New York Daily News) New York Daily News published this on April 22, 1934. 
 
 Officers call Barrow and his gun moll “a pair of human rats” who dash about the country like mad dogs, jeering, cursing and laughing diabolically at their dying victims. These same officers admit the bandits are experts with firearms and absolutely fearless, and doubt that they ever will be captured alive. They seem to know every highway and side road in the Middle West. They strike suddenly and ruthlessly, and when officers think they have the pair cornered they suddenly appear in another State. 
 
 *** 
 
 Barrow, Bonnie and Hamilton grew up in West Dallas. Barrow fought, fibbed and stole and at the age of 15 had his first brush with the law. He was arrested for automobile thievery. That was on Dec. 3, 1926. 
 
 Barrow and Hamilton, while still in their early teens, teamed up in petty thievery and many times ran afoul of the law. As they grew older, they started carrying guns and set out along the easy money route. On Feb. 28, 1928, Barrow and Hamilton were picked up for investigation in Fort Worth, and in October, 1929, they were arrested for two safe burglaries in Dallas. 
 
 About this time Barrow and Hamilton met Parker, who was a waitress in a Dallas cafe. She is the daughter of Mrs. Emma Parker of Trinity Heights, and, although only 15 at the time, Bonnie had been married to Roy Harding, who now is serving a prison sentence for the murder of a deputy sheriff. The youthful bandits started taking Bonnie along on escapades and she soon became a fugitive also. 
 
 Clyde’s first serious acquaintance with jails came in 1930. On March 2 he was convicted on seven charges of burglary and given two years in each case in Waco, Tex. The Judge, moved by the defendant’s youth, agreed to allow the sentences to run concurrently. But jail was not to the liking of Barrow, and he escaped before he could be taken to prison. 
 
 On March 16, just two weeks after Barrow had been sentenced, Middletown, O., police attempted to arrest him for questioning. Here Clyde, for the first time, tried to shoot it out with the officers. He was captured and returned to Waco, where the Judge ordered Barrow to serve the full fourteen years of his sentences. 
 
 Barrow Chops Off Toe to Avoid Work in Jail. 
 
 Clyde was admitted to the Texas penitentiary on May 21, 1930, and was assigned to the woodchopping detail. His dislike for hard labor was shown immediately. He deliberately chopped off the big toe of his right foot so he would be sent to the hospital. 
 
 Meanwhile, Marvin Ivy (Buck) Barrow, brother of Clyde and eight years his senior, also had launched upon a criminal career and had been sentenced to prison on several robbery charges. He had escaped on March 30, 1930, and when Clyde was sent to prison, Buck and his wife, Blanche, 22, teamed up with Hamilton and the red-headed Bonnie Parker. This quartet continued their career of petty robbery during 1930 and 1931 until Buck Barrow surrendered to prison authorities on Dec. 27, 1931. 
 
 Notorious bank robbers Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow kid around with a shotgun. (ASSOCIATED PRESS) 
 
 Mrs. Cumie F. Barrow, frail, gray-haired mother of the notorious brothers, appealed for clemency for her wayward son Clyde. Sobs of the mother finally aroused the pity of Gov. Ross Sterling and he paroled Clyde on Feb. 2, 1932. This act of clemency brought vigorous protests from several sheriffs who wanted Barrow on numerous charges of robbery and theft. 
 
 The younger Barrow had hardly reached home before Dallas police arrested him for hijacking on March 25. Clyde had joined Hamilton and Bonnie Parker again. The following month, on April 30, J.N. Bucher, operator of a store at Hillsboro,Tex., was shot to death by two youths as they robbed him. Barrow and Hamilton were identified as the bandits. The Texas Rattlesnake had had his first taste of blood. 
 
 They were identified again in a Dallas robbery on May 12, and on Aug. 1 they robbed the Neuhoff Packing Company in Dallas of $400. 
 
 Barrow and Hamilton next turned up at a dance at Atoka, Okla., on Aug. 5. A sheriff and his deputy approached their car to question them. The youthful bandits opened fire without warning, killing the sheriff and wounding the deputy, E.C. Moore. 
 
 Next they kidnaped a deputy sheriff at Carlsbad, N.M., on Aug. 16 they wounded a deputy in a gun battle at Wharton, in South Texas, on Aug. 30. They killed Howard Hall, grocery clerk, in a store robbery at Sherman, Tex., on Oct. 11. 
 
 At about this time Barrow and Hamilton split after dispute over the affections of their redheaded feminine companion. 
 
 Hamilton was arrested at Bay City, Mich., in December, 1932. He was brought back to Texas and given sentences totaling 263 years on just a few of the many charges chalked up against him. 
 
 Hamilton lamented having broken with Clyde Barrow, and vowed that no penitentiary would hold him. 
 
 “I’ll wait my chance and be out before you know it. And when I do, I’ll team up with Clyde and Bonnie again and all hell will never catch us,” Hamilton defiantly declared, as officers well recall now. 
 
 *** 
 
 Picture taken in the early 1930s of crime partners Bonnie Parker (R) and Clyde Barrow, Bonnie and Clyde. (STF/AFP/Getty Images) 
 
 Meanwhile, Gov. Sterling had revoked Clyde’s parole because of his criminal activities, but the younger Barrow, and Bonnie continued on their lawless way. On Dec. 23, 1932, they attempted to steal an automobile at Temple, Tex., and killed Doyle Johnson, the owner, in making their escape. 
 
 Clyde and Bonnie decided to visit Barrow’s mother on Jan. 7, 1933. They ran into a police trap, but shot their way out, killing Deputy Sheriff Malcolm Davis. 
 
 Gov. Miriam A. Ferguson of Texas granted Clyde’s older brother, Buck, a full pardon on March 20, 1933. Buck and his wife, immediately joined Clyde and Bonnie in Joplin, Mo. 
 
 Officers surrounded their house to make a search for liquor on April 13, not knowing the identity of the occupants. Constable J. W. Harriman was killed instantly and Detective Harry McGinnis was wounded fatally. Machine guns, shotguns, pistols, loot from Joplin robberies, and a cache of diamonds stolen in Texas were found in the house, but the outlaws escaped. 
 
 Bonnie Takes to Verse; Becomes ‘Suicide Sal.’ 
 
 On a table was an unfinished poem entitled “Suicide Sal,” in the handwriting of Bonnie Sal. She described her life as the pal of a desperado and declared she was proud of it. Since then, Bonnie has been known as Suicide Sal. 
 
 With Missouri offering a $1,000 reward for the capture of the Barrows, which still stands for Clyde’s apprehension, Barrow, and Bonnie wandered about Indiana, Kansas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Texas and Louisiana. 
 
 On April 28 they stole a car at Ruston, La., belonging to H.D. Darby, a business man. Darby and Miss Sophie Stone, home demonstration agent, gave chase in her car. The Barrows kidnaped them and let them out 125 miles away at Waldo, Ark., after giving them $5. 
 
 In Darby’s car the roving terrorists swooped down on far-off Lucerne, Ind., on May 8. They robbed a bank and wounded two women as they escaped. 
 
 They turned up next near Wellington, Tex., in the Panhandle. Bonnie Parker was injured when the bandits’ car went over an embankment. Their guns aroused a farmer’s suspicions and he notified the sheriff. 
 
 The lawmen who finally got Bonnie and Clyde resorted to an ambush, riddling their car with bullets on May 23, 1934, near Gibsland, La. (AP) 
 
 When Sheriff George Corry and Marshal Paul Hardy arrived at the scene they were captured, disarmed, and forced to accompany the bandits to near Erick, Okla., where they were left tied and wired to trees. 
 
 Sheriff Corry related that Clyde Barrow had asked them: 
 
 “Did you know who I was?” 
 
 When the officer admitted he did not, Barrow replied: 
 
 “It’s a good thing. Seven like you did, and they’re pushing up daisies now.” 
 
 The outlaw brothers and their women companions next appeared in Hutchinson, Kan., on June 14, and stole an automobile which was identified as that used in a store robbery at Fayetteville, Ark., on June 23. Their auto was wrecked in a collision near Alma in their getaway. Marshal Henry D. Humphrey, 52, and Deputy Sheriff A.M. Salyers started to investigate. The bandits killed Humphrey without warning and fled in Salyers’ car. 
 
 During the next thirty minutes the bandits spread terror along the highway. Motorists were forced into the ditch by a hail of bullets and finally the road was blocked by the outlaws and a car in which Mr. and Mrs. Mack Lofton Jr. were driving was seized by the fleeing pair. 
 
 Early the following morning, Mrs. Harry F. Rogers, 26, while canning fruit in her kitchen, was confronted by two men at her mountain home near Winslow, Ark., 50 miles from Alma. Although alone, Mrs. Rogers defied the bandits when they demanded the keys to her automobile. 
 
 The enraged intruders beat Mrs. Rogers with a heavy chain and their fists, criminally assaulted her and stabbed her. They then told the semi-conscious woman that they would fix the car so she could never drive it, and started pushing the machine toward the edge of a cliff. 
 
 As the pair fled, the courageous farmwoman dragged herself to her feet, steered the car against a tree and slumped unconscious, where she was found by her husband upon his return. After hovering between life and death for several days, Mrs. Rogers recovered and identified pictures of Clyde and Buck Barrow as those of her attackers. 
 
 The bullet-riddled automobile in which the bandits, Clyde Barrow and Bonnie Parker, were trapped, shot and killed on a Louisiana road is seen May 24, 1934, near Arcadia, La. (AP) 
 
 *** 
 
 The Barrows shot their way out of a tight spot in Platte City, Mo., on July 20. A cordon of thirteen officers surrounded their tourist cabin and ordered them out. A woman answered that she would open the door as soon as she was dressed. A moment later machine gun fire burst from the cabin. The officers’ guns raked the walls, but their machine gun jammed. 
 
 Suddenly the two Barrows and their women dashed from the door. One of the men, apparently wounded, was being half-carried by the women. The other man turned a machine gun on the officers and kept them at bay long enough to permit a getaway in their auto. Three of the officers had been wounded, none seriously. 
 
 The desperate band was not so fortunate when they met up with the authorities of Dexter, Iowa, four days later. Their trial had been picked up when Ed Penn, a farmer, found bloodstained bandages in the woods near Dexter. 
 
 Federal, State and county officers closed in about the wooded area. The Barrows opened fire from behind a fallen tree. The posse closed in under terrific fire from machine guns and automatic pistols. Deputy Sheriff Rags Riley of Polk County was wounded slightly. 
 
 Buck Barrow fell seriously wounded and his wife Blanche was captured while fighting like a tigress by his side. She had been injured in the face by shattered glass during the battle at Platte City. 
 
 Clyde Barrow and Bonnie Parker escaped by wading a creek, crawling through a cornfield and stealing a car from Valley Feller, a farmer. 
 
 Buck and Blanche were taken to Perry, La., for treatment while airplanes, armored cars, motorcycles and automobiles, all equipped with wireless, took up the search for the fugitives. The manhunt spread over Minnesota, Kansas, Nebraska and several other States. 
 
 The belief that one more or more of the fugitives had been wounded was verified on July 28 when a car stolen from George Allbright of Polk County was found abandoned near Broken Bow, Neb. The cushions were blood-soaked and Bonnie’s purse and picture were in the car. 
 
 Meanwhile officers had identified the Barrow gang in dozens of robberies throughout Iowa and an arsenal of two machine guns, thirty-four automatic pistols and five revolvers had been found in the outlaw barricade. 
 
 Tan Ford sedan in which Clyde Barrow and Bonnie Parker were ambushed. 
 
 Dying Buck Barrow Confesses a Murder 
 
 Realizing he was dying, Buck confessed that it was he who killed Marshal Humphrey and sought to exonerate Clyde. Deputy Salyers identified Buck as one of the pair that killed Humphrey and in turn was told by the dying desperado that he was lucky to be alive. 
 
 Buck Barrow died on July 29 from infection of one of his many wounds. His wife was returned to Pallette City, Mo., and was sentenced to ten years in prison. 
 
 The 59-year-old mother of the bandit brothers arrived in Iowa after her son’s death. She returned his body to Texas for burial in a little rural cemetery near Dallas. 
 
 *** 
 
 Clyde and Bonnie continued to leave their trail of crime through several State of the Middle West. Bank robberies, filling station holdups, store burglaries and highway robbery were charged to them over a large area, but they avoided brushes with the law until Nov. 22, 1933. 
 
 Sheriff R. A. Schmid of Dallas learned that Clyde had been slipping home to visit his mother and laid a trap for the desperado. The sheriff and three deputies hid in a ditch alongside a new highway near Grand Prairie, about midway between Dallas and Fort Worth. They opened fire on Barrow’s car with machine guns. With guns blazing from his hands and those of Bonnie, the daring outlaw dashed through the trap. 
 
 While officers of several States were investigating ever current reports that the will-o’-the-wisp bandit and his cigar-smoking girl companion were in their localities, Barrow suddenly carried out the most daring exploit of his career on Jan. 16, 1934. 
 
 Major Crowson, 24, and Olan Bozeman, 30, guards at the Eastham prison farm on the Trinity River in Houston County, Texas, had started out on the farm of thousands of acres with a woodcutting detail of seventeen prisoners shortly before 7 o’clock that morning. 
 
 Raymond Hamilton, former pal of Clyde Barrow and sweetheart of Bonnie Parker, was one of the convicts. As the detail was passing a drainage ditch, Joe Palmer, another of the convicts suddenly dashed to a brush pile, followed by two other prisoners. The trio came up with pistols and opened fire on the guards. At the same moment, Barrow and Bonnie stuck their heads above the top of the drainage ditch and opened fire with machine guns. 
 
 Every year on the anniversary weekend the ambush scene is re-enacted as part of a Bonnie and Clyde Festival. (AP) 
 
 Crowson went down, mortally wounded by a bullet fired by Palmer. Bozeman was shot in the hips. Hamilton, serving sentences totaling 263 years; Palmer, serving twenty-five years for robbery with firearms; Henry Methvin, up for ten years for assault to murder; W.H. Bybee, under two life sentences for murders, and J.B. French, serving twenty-five years for robbery, escaped with Barrow and his gun moll. Their car was observed dashing over the roads with machine guns held on the sides by the fugitives. 
 
 French was recaptured that night near the prison farm, and Bybee was caught at Amarillo, Tex., on Jan. 30. The other three, Palmer being charged with the murder of Crowson, remain at large. 
 
 Posses, headed by Texas Rangers, and sheriffs of a dozen counties, scoured South Texas for days, but the elusive Barrow could not be found. Guards recalled seeing a mysterious airplane hovering about the farm for several days, and prison authorities believe Barrow had scouted the layout from the air before attempting the daring delivery. 
 
 *** 
 
 Barrow, Bonnie and Hamilton, the strange trio that had launched a criminal career while children, and, stranger still, with one girl serving as sweetheart to two youthful desperadoes, were together once more. 
 
 Their trial soon was picked up again. One the afternoon of Feb. 12, City Marshal Dale Davis and three deputies of Reed Springs, Mo., started in search of thieves who had stolen a car from a dealer in the town. Near the outskirts of Reed Springs, Barrow, Bonnie Parker and two other men were bottled up in a narrow lane by the officers. 
 
 Outnumbering their pursuers, the desperadoes forced the officers to retreat under heavy gunfire. After disabling the officers’ car, the bandits fled south. Sheriff Seth Tuttle and a posse arrived and chased the fugitives into Arkansas. 
 
 Higher Reward Urged If Barrow is Killed. 
 
 Irked by the many lawless acts of Barrow and his companions in crime, the Texas Legislature voted a $1,000 reward for his capture on Feb. 17. No price was placed on Bonnie’s head. 
 
 Attempts to make the reward for Barrow “dead or alive” brought bitter argument. Several members expressed the opinion that Barrow will never be taken alive and that it would be a great benefit to the State and nation if he were killed. 
 
 One even suggested doubling the reward if the desperado was killed and cutting it in half if he is taken alive. Others contended that legalized murder, even of the Texas Rattlesnake, should not be encouraged, and declared that every man is entitled to a fair trial. 
 
 Meanwhile, Barrow, with the blood of at least nine men on his hands; his gun moll, Bonnie Parker, drinker of strong corn whisky and smoker of strong cigar, and Raymond Hamilton, fugitive from a 263-year prison sentence, dash over the highways from the Canadian border to the Gulf, robbing, looting, and ready to kill at the least provocation. 
 
 Elusive, armed to the teeth with firearms with which they are experts, ruthless killers, and masters of almost every type of crime this strange trio of two desperadoes and their one sweetheart companion have eclipsed the bloody record of Pretty Boy Floyd and are recognized as the most dangerous criminals in the Middle West and possibly the nation. 
 
 Sign up for BREAKING NEWS Emails privacy policy Thanks for subscribing!