Source: Multi-News

Within a few months of The Times article, a headline in The Detroit News asked whether Mr. Dawkins should be allowed to profit from tragedy. Not long after that story appeared, Mr. Dawkins received the court summons, demanding partial “reimbursement to the state for Defendant’s cost of care while incarcerated.” 
 
 Image Kimberly Knutsen says the deal her partner, Mr. Dawkins, landed for “The Graybar Hotel” has helped support their family. Credit Leah Nash for The New York Times 
 
 Michigan is one of more than 40 states where prisoners can be forced to pay for the cost of their incarceration, according to the Brennan Center for Justice at the New York University School of Law. Laws that allow the government to charge prisoners “room and board” or “cost of care” fees have proliferated in recent decades, as states charge inmates and parolees for everything from medical care, clothing and meals to police transport, public defense fees, drug testing and electronic monitoring. 
 
 Since so many prisoners are impoverished to begin with, states typically don’t raise much money by charging inmates room and board fees, and in some states, the enforcement of these laws is conditional on the prisoner’s ability to pay. But as the cost of mass incarceration has soared, with more than 2.2 million adults in prisons and jails across the United States, some states have grown more aggressive in seeking money from prisoners and formerly incarcerated people. 
 
 During the last fiscal year, Michigan collected some $3.7 million from 294 prisoners, who account for just a fraction of the state’s nearly 40,000 inmates. Around the country, some 10 million people owe $50 billion in fees stemming from their arrest or imprisonment, according to a 2015 Brennan Center report. 
 
 States often take a percentage of the earnings inmates receive through prison work programs. But some states have also sought money from prisoners who have received larger sums, through an inheritance or legal settlements or, as in Mr. Dawkins’s case, money they acquire through their own initiative. After an Illinois inmate who was serving a 15-month sentence for a drug conviction received a $31,690 settlement for his mother’s death, he was forced to pay the state nearly $20,000 for the cost of his imprisonment, leaving him nearly destitute when he was paroled in 2015. 
 
 In Florida, a convict named Jeremy Barrett who received a $150,000 settlement from the Department of Corrections for negligence, after he was attacked in 2011 by another inmate who gouged out his eye, was forced to pay the state nearly $55,000 from the settlement as reimbursement for his three years in prison. 
 
 When prisoners and former inmates fight such charges, courts often rule in the state’s favor. In 2000, Connecticut’s Supreme Court ruled that Eric Ham, who was serving a 50-year sentence for murder, had to pay nearly $900,000 toward the cost of his incarceration, after he won a settlement of around $1 million from the city of New Haven for falsely arresting him for another crime that he didn’t commit. ||||| Curtis Dawkins wrote The Graybar Hotel while serving a life sentence. Now the state says proceeds from the work belong to them 
 
 Curtis Dawkins, a Michigan prisoner and publishing sensation, could be forced to repay the costs of his incarceration from the proceeds of his literary work. 
 
 
 
 Dawkins is serving a life sentence for a 2004 crime spree on Halloween night that left one man dead. His debut collection of short stories, The Graybar Hotel, was written in a Michigan penitentiary and published in July. 
 
 But now the Michigan department of treasury is seeking 90% of Dawkins’ assets, including “proceeds from publications, future payments, royalties” from the book. Michigan puts the cost of his incarceration at $72,000; Dawkins, 49, received a $150,000 advance from Scribner, an imprint of Simon & Schuster. 
 
 
 
 Curtis Dawkins with his children in 2003. Photograph: pr 
 
 The state claims that Dawkins, who is representing himself at a hearing next week in Kalamazoo, has no right to pass his literary earnings to his family. 
 
 But Dawkins, who has expressed deep remorse for the murder and described writing as his “lifeboat”, claims his family is being unfairly punished. He says state law contains a provision stating that the court must take into account “any legal and moral obligation” he has to support his children. 
 
 Kenneth Bowman, the brother of Dawkins’ victim Tom Bowman, told the New York Times last year he believes that any money Dawkins receives should go to the victim’s family or a charity. 
 
 Bowman told the Detroit News he wished Michigan had the death penalty. Given the opportunity, Bowman said, he’d administer it himself. 
 
 Break-out stories: the murderer who hopes writing fiction will set him free Read more 
 
 Not long after, Michigan made its claim demanding partial “reimbursement to the state for defendant’s cost of care while incarcerated”. Many states have provisions to bar inmates from profiting from nonfiction accounts of their crimes by directing proceeds to victim families, but not to reimburse for their incarceration itself. 
 
 According to the Brennan Center for Justice at the New York University school of law, Michigan is one of more than 40 states where prisoners can be forced to pay for the cost of their incarceration. 
 
 In recent years, the Times reports, state government claims for reimbursement are increasing and can now include medical care, clothing, meals, police transport, public defense fees, drug testing and electronic monitoring. 
 
 Last year, Michigan collected $3.7m from 294 prisoners. The state counts 40,000 inmates of the 2.2 million adults in US jails. According to the Brennan center, roughly 10 million people owe $50bn in fees stemming from their arrest or imprisonment. 
 
 In a 2015 paper, Charging Inmates Perpetuates Mass Incarceration, the center concluded that while it was understandable that states would look to offset the high costs of incarceration, “it is unreasonable to require a population whose debt to society is already being paid by the sentences imposed, 80% of whom are indigent, to help foot the bill.” 
 
 Lauren-Brooke Eisen, author of the report, told the Times that to be deprived of liberty and then be required to pay for the separation from society “raises cruel and unusual punishment issues”. H Bruce Franklin, author of Prison Literature in America, says such measures could dissuade prisoner-writers from publishing at all. 
 
 Dawkins, a father of three, has said the practice of writing allows him to exist in an imaginary world. Writing about a fictional prison eases the burden of being in a real one. “It gets me away from the world I’m trying to turn into fiction, if that makes any sense,” he told the Detroit News. 
 
 But until the legal matter is resolved, Dawkins’ finances are effectively frozen. He split his initial advance with Jarrett Haley, the founder of Bull, a small literary magazine, who had helped him get a book deal. 
 
 He placed around $50,000 in a fund to help to pay for college and high school for his children. But on orders of the state, the final advance payments from his publisher have been suspended. 
 
 A press spokesman for the Michigan attorney general said the office “cannot comment on pending litigation”.