Source: Multi-News

The University of Notre Dame’s administration building. (Getty/Jonathan Daniel) 
 
 Well, since you asked — and many of my friends have, some more than once — no, I will not be cheering for my alma mater, the University of Notre Dame, to win big-time college football’s championship on Jan. 7. What’s really surprising me are those who believe as I do that two players on the team have committed serious criminal acts — sexual assault in one case, and rape in another — but assumed that I’d support the team anyway, just as they are. 
 
 “Aren’t you just a little bit excited?” one asked the other day. There are plenty of good guys on the team, too, I’m repeatedly told. And oh, that Manti Te’o is inspiring. But as a thought exercise, how many predators would have to be on the team before you’d no longer feel like cheering? 
 
 Sexual violations of all kinds happen on every campus, I know, and neither man will ever be found guilty in court; one of the victims is dead and the other, according to the Notre Dame student who drove her to the ER afterward, in February 2011, decided to keep her mouth shut at least in part because she’d seen what happened to the first woman. Neither player has ever even been named, and won’t be here, either, since neither was charged with a crime. 
 
 The Department of Education’s civil rights office is well aware of the second case, though; in fact, federal investigators were on campus when it occurred, as part of a seven-month probe into the way Notre Dame handles such reports. And as a result, with its Title IX funding on the line, the university marked the 40th anniversary of coeducation in 2012 by changing the way it investigates sexual assault for the second time in two years. 
 
 Lizzy Seeberg at a tailgate party with her father, brother and friends on Sept. 4, 2010, several days after accusing a Notre Dame football player of sexual assault. (Courtesy of the Seeberg family.) 
 
 I’ve spent months researching these cases and written thousands of words in the National Catholic Reporter about the whole shameful situation, some of which you’ve likely heard about: Two years ago, Lizzy Seeberg, a 19-year-old freshman at Saint Mary’s College, across the street from Notre Dame, committed suicide after accusing an ND football player of sexually assaulting her. The friend Lizzy told immediately afterward said she was crying so hard she was having trouble breathing. 
 
 Yet after Lizzy went to the police, a friend of the player’s sent her a series of texts that frightened her as much as anything that had happened in the player’s dorm room. “Don’t do anything you would regret,” one of them said. “Messing with Notre Dame football is a bad idea.” 
 
 At the time of her death, 10 days after reporting the attack to campus police, who have jurisdiction for even the most serious crimes on school property, investigators still had not interviewed the accused. It took them five more days after she died to get around to that, though they investigated Lizzy herself quite thoroughly, even debriefing a former roommate at another school with whom she’d clashed. 
 
 Six months later — after the story had become national news — Notre Dame did convene a closed-door disciplinary hearing. The player testified that until he actually met with police, he hadn’t even known why they wanted to speak to him — though his buddy who’d warned Lizzy not to mess with Notre Dame football had spoken to investigators 13 days earlier. He was found “not responsible,” and never sat out a game. 
 
 My family celebrating with my dad, John Henneberger, Notre Dame Class of ’44, on his birthday, the same day the above photo of Lizzy Seeberg was taken, Saturday, Sept. 4, 2010. 
 
 A few months later, a resident assistant in a Notre Dame dorm drove a freshman to the hospital for a rape exam after receiving an S.O.S. call. “She said she’d been raped by a member of the football team at a party off campus,” the R.A. told me. I also spoke to the R.A.’s parents, who met the young woman that same night, when their daughter brought her to their home after leaving the hospital. They said they saw — and reported to athletic officials — a hailstorm of texts from other players, warning the young woman not to report what had happened: “They were trying to silence this girl,” the R.A.’s father told me. And did; no criminal complaint was ever filed. 
 
 It’s not only what I believe went on at that off-campus party, or in the room of the player Lizzy accused, that makes it impossible for me to support the team, though that would be enough. The problem goes deeper than that, and higher, because the man Lizzy accused had a history of behavior that should have kept him from being recruited in the first place. And as bad in my book as the actions of those young men was the determination of the considerably older men who run N.D. to keep those players on the team in an effort to win some football games. 
 
 Among those being congratulated for our return to gridiron glory is ND’s president, Rev. John Jenkins, who refused to meet with the Seeberg family on advice of counsel, and other school officials who’ve whispered misleadingly in many ears, mine included, in an attempt to protect the school’s brand by smearing a dead 19-year-old. 
 
 (Yes, Lizzy suffered from depression, but according to her therapists was neither “unstable” nor a teller of tales. No, she had never before accused anyone of such a thing. And no, she had never before attempted suicide.) 
 
 At first, officials said privacy laws prevented them from responding. But after some criticism, Jenkins told the South Bend Tribune he’d intentionally kept himself free of any in-depth knowledge of the case, yet was sure it had been handled appropriately. 
 
 The school’s “proof” that Lizzy lied is that she said the player stopped attacking her after receiving a call or a text. Phone records contradict that, showing that it was the player who called a friend rather than the other way around. Case closed, right? Sure, if you don’t think someone in the middle of both a physical and an anxiety attack could possibly be mistaken about whether her assailant stopped to make a call, or take one. 
 
 Joanne Archambault, who ran the San Diego police department’s special victims unit for 10 years and trains cops around the country, told me for my NCR story that because of the way the brain processes information in traumatic situations, victims almost always get some details wrong. Only the phony reports are perfect. 
 
 I have no trouble understanding the many Notre Dame fans who don’t know the facts of these cases. Or even those who tell themselves well, maybe, but innocent until proven guilty, right? Lucky them, I say. 
 
 The alums who mystify me are those who know the real story, believe it, and are giddy still over a winning season that’s at least in part the result of wrong behavior. I did myself a favor recently and unsubscribed from the alumni e-mails touting the school’s good works and asking, “What would you fight for?” (Football?) 
 
 My husband says he continues to be amazed by the depths of my disillusionment; had I really thought they were so much better than this? You bet I did; in fact, Notre Dame isn’t Notre Dame if it isn’t, which might explain why school officials maintain to this day that they’ve done nothing wrong, have never besmirched Miss Seeberg’s memory, and have no idea how so many fans think they know so much about her. (Here’s how: A longtime ND donor I interviewed said a top university official told him straight up that Lizzy had been sexually aggressive with the player rather than the other way around: “She was all over the boy.”) 
 
 Though 13 Seebergs went to Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s before Lizzy, her family is sitting this season out, of course. Yet in their Chicago suburb, football fever runs so high that they, too, regularly field queries from friends about whether they’re excited for the Irish. 
 
 “We just say ‘No, not too excited, really not a big fan any longer,’ ” says Lizzy’s father, Tom Seeberg, who’s remarkably indifferent to the team’s success: “When tragedy rocks you to your core, all the little stuff is stripped away.” And yes, sports fans, there are people who consider football the little stuff. Since Lizzy’s death, Tom and his wife Mary have raised $280,000 in her memory, enough to open the “Lizzy House” for laypeople teaching for free in the Jesuit-run, inner-city Chicago Cristo Rey school where Lizzy volunteered. 
 
 Lizzy’s aunt, Katie Garvey, who met her husband at ND, has come to believe that even if the facts of these cases were “blasted from every news source in the country, the average Notre Dame fan would still find a way to discount it.” Part of her is actually kind of glad for them, that “they don’t have the burden of knowing,” even if “their resistance to knowing is absolutely remarkable.” 
 
 In South Bend, naturally, knowing is particularly burdensome: “I’ve watched almost every game this season and there’s not a single time that I don’t feel extreme anger when I see [the accused] on the field,” said Kaliegh Fields, a Saint Mary’s junior who went with Lizzy to the police station. “Once I start thinking about the people who put the school’s success in a sport over the life of a young woman, I can’t help but feel disgust. Everyone’s always saying how God’s on Notre Dame’s side,” she added. “And I think, ‘How could he be?’ ” ||||| Notre Dame's star linebacker Manti Te'o has become an internet sensation after it was revealed that he, knowingly or unknowingly, cultivated an online relationship with Lennay Kekua: a beautiful, smart woman with cancer – who just happens to not to exist. 
 
 The story, published Wednesday by Deadspin, garnered a reported 2.6m page views within hours, and a head-spinning amount of viral conversation. But, most notably, the story prompted a swift message of support for Te'o from the school. 
 
 Notre Dame is now casting blame on internet tricksters who played with the player's heart. The school's athletic director, Jack Swarbrick, delivered an emotional response to reporters on Wednesday: "Every single thing about this was real to Manti. There was no suspicion. The grief was real, the affection was real, and that's the sad nature of this cruel game." 
 
 Maybe Te'o really was duped, or maybe he had a hand in perpetrating the Kekua myth. Either way, Notre Dame's vocal support for its star contrasts sharply with its relative silence on reported sex assaults by football players. 
 
 Te'o was a sophomore on August 31, 2010, when Lizzy Seeberg, a freshman at St Mary's College, a university across the street from Notre Dame, reported that she was sexually assaulted by a Notre Dame football player. In the stressful aftermath of the assault, which included coercion from the player's friend – "Don't do anything you would regret," the friend texted Seeberg – Seeberg took an overdosed of depression and anxiety medication and died eight days later. 
 
 The most comprehensive coverage on sex assault cases at Notre Dame has come from Melinda Henneberger, who covered the school's response to Seeberg's case for the National Catholic Reporter and then provided further commentary for the Washington Post. In the course of her reporting, she was denied access to Notre Dame officials, and found out that Seeberg's family was, too. 
 
 According to the Seebergs, Notre Dame police said they weren't sure when they'd have time to follow up on the case. "They said they were pretty busy," Mary Seeberg said, "because it's football season and there's a lot of underage drinking." 
 
 And there was another young woman. She was a freshman when she reported being raped by a football player at a party. Henneberger reported that after the woman endured the same coercion that Seeberg faced, she dropped the report. She lived, and the player continued to play the field. 
 
 As in many football communities, when Notre Dame does well, the money flows in: not just to the school, but to the towns outside the stadium gates. In South Bend, when the football team is winning – when 80,000 people buy tickets to sit and drink and watch football in the shadow of "Touchdown Jesus" – the otherwise blighted local economy basks in the glow of $10 million spent locally each home game. When wins are fewer, times are leaner. 
 
 But fandom – and access to lore – is always accessible whether times are good or bad. So when scandal hits, communities tend to favor the institution over the individual. It's why Penn State fans welcomed coach Bill O'Brien back with a standing ovation. It's why University of Texas officials are comfortable enough to return two players accused of sexual assault to the roster even as police say the investigation continues. And it's why a football community and police department in Ohio are co-battling a media storm around allegations both worked together to tamp down reports of rape at the hands of two star players. 
 
 A hoaxing isn't anything like sex assault accusations, but that's the whole point. Regardless of whether or not Manti Te'o was fooled, and regardless of what Notre Dame officials have to say, in the end, no one will get hurt but those who lied and those who protected liars. 
 
 The opposite is true for the women who reported assault and those who have been denied access to the truth afterwards. ||||| Less than a day into the Manti Te'o revelations, we've heard more about a fake dead girlfriend of a Notre Dame football player than a real dead girl. Lizzy Seeberg committed suicide, not long after being intimidated by Notre Dame football players for reporting a sexual assault by one of their teammates. A second woman who was taken to the hospital for a rape exam declined to formally accuse another Notre Dame football player after getting a series of bullying texts from players. 
 
 The handful of people who immediately took note of the contrast in the attention — both by the press and by the university — are absolutely right to be angry. But no one should be surprised. 
 
 We don't know everything about the Te'o saga yet, but there is probably only one fake dead girlfriend mythologized by the sports media, the existence of "Catfish"-ing as a verb notwithstanding. Whereas there are legions of stories of sexual violence against women and men by star athletes and staff, who can reliably count on the impunity offered by fandom. Confronting the former is a little embarrassing: The public equivalent of loving too much, the allure of a heartwarming story everyone wanted to believe. Confronting the latter requires uglier, more difficult self-examination, and accepting collective responsibility costs more. 
 
 It matters, too, how we can talk about each story. Some Manti Te'o Twitter jokes were instant classics; no one decent can make jokes about a girl who killed herself after being told, “Don’t do anything you would regret," and “Messing with Notre Dame football is a bad idea," according to Melinda Henneberger's reporting. Henneberger, a Notre Dame alum, wrote in the Washington Post in early December that she won't be cheering for the team. "As a thought exercise, how many predators would have to be on the team before you’d no longer feel like cheering?" she wrote. (She also said, "There are plenty of good guys on the team, too, I’m repeatedly told, And oh, that Manti Te’o is inspiring. I don’t doubt it." Very few did.) It's easier to just change the subject and not think about whether there is something endemic to football culture that enables sexual entitlement with the reasonable assumption of getting away with it. 
 
 We all have heard by now how denial and institutional culture contributed to Jerry Sandusky's ability to continue assaulting young boys for years, under cover of the Penn State football program. But once that was exposed, it was rightly considered an unambiguous evil. But the sexual assault of women can and is often explained away — including the Notre Dame donor who justified his continued support to Henneberger by saying that Seeberg had been sexually aggressive, that "she was all over the boy." In other words, it's not just the players who are banding together around their brothers whether they're rapists or not; it's the adults around them who are turning a blind eye because they consider other things are more important. And they're willing to believe anything except that these nice boys can be rapists. ||||| Photo by Streeter Lecka/Getty Images 
 
 Notre Dame's football team had the ghosts of two dead young women following it this past season. One of the women was an inspiration to us all, selfless as she lay dying from her terminal illness, her only wish for her football hero boyfriend being that he live a full life and not miss a game for her funeral. The other woman, however, was a troublemaker, who died of suicide after trying and failing to get Notre Dame to take her accusations of sexual assault against a football player seriously. Now we all know: Only one of these women was real. 
 
 Amanda Marcotte Amanda Marcotte is writer for Salon. 
 
 
 
 The perfect girlfriend, Lennay Kekua, never existed. And "her" "boyfriend" Manti Te'o—the Notre Dame linebacker who wowed the sports world by racking up 12 tackles in an upset against Michigan State mere days after the devastating loss of his beloved Kekua to leukemia—is not the hero we thought he was. Te'o is currently denying that he was in on the hoax, despite claiming to have met Kekua in person. We'll find out the truth soon enough, but regardless, the heart-warming story of a woman whose dying thoughts are not of her lost future but of her man's bright one was as real as the characters in the movies that tell the same fake story. 
 
 Advertisement 
 
 
 
 Unfortunately for Notre Dame, Lizzy Seeberg was a real person and she really did kill herself in 2011, at age 19, after accusing a football player of sexual assault. In December, Melinda Henneberger explained what happened: 
 
 Yet after Lizzy went to the police, a friend of the player’s sent her a series of texts that frightened her as much as anything that had happened in the player’s dorm room. “Don’t do anything you would regret,” one of them said. “Messing with Notre Dame football is a bad idea.” 
 
 At the time of her death, 10 days after reporting the attack to campus police, who have jurisdiction for even the most serious crimes on school property, investigators still had not interviewed the accused. It took them five more days after she died to get around to that, though they investigated Lizzy herself quite thoroughly, even debriefing a former roommate at another school with whom she’d clashed. 
 
 With the alleged victim unable to speak for herself any longer, it comes as no surprise that once the player was actually questioned, he was swiftly cleared and didn't even have to sit out a game. Another alleged rape happened shortly thereafter, but wasn't reported by the victim (Henneberger learned about it from a resident advisor), which seems like the only rational decision under the circumstances. 
 
 Te'o's story has been all over the news today—and with good reason. It's nuts. But what's also nuts is that the story of Lennay Kekua—the dead girl who never lived—is a bigger deal (3.1 million-plus views on Deadspin and counting) than the story of Lizzy Seeberg, whose real life ended in real tragedy (44K for this Deadspin post).