Source: Multi-News

(CNN) Volunteers and law enforcement combed the side of a highway on Thursday looking for evidence in the disappearance of a missing Wisconsin teenager whose parents were found dead in their home this week. 
 
 But the search along Highway 8 in Barron County, Wisconsin, didn't turn up anything of value, according to Barron County Sheriff Chris Fitzgerald. 
 
 Hours earlier, Fitzgerald asked for 100 volunteers to help in the routine search for evidence that could be related to the case as the search for Jayme Closs entered its fourth day. 
 
 The 13-year-old was likely at her family's Barron home, located on Highway 8, when her parents were shot dead, and she vanished moments later, investigators believe. Her whereabouts and safety are still in question. 
 
 "We believe Jayme was in the home at the time of the homicides and we believe she's still in danger," Fitzgerald said this week. 
 
 Thursday's search took place about 3 miles from the family's home, according to CNN affiliate WCCO 
 
 Since authorities received a cryptic 911 call and discovered the bodies of Jayme's parents in their home near the town of Barron early Monday, investigators have received more than 800 tips and have not confirmed any credible sightings of the girl. 
 
 But the sheriff said he has a "100% expectation that she's alive." 
 
 #FBIMilwaukee needs your help, as the search continues to bring home 13 year old Jayme Closs, now missing & endangered after her parents were found dead in their home in Barron, WI early this week. Call the tip line 1-855-744-3879.#FindJayme pic.twitter.com/rNELlQKJb6 — FBI Milwaukee (@FBIMilwaukee) October 17, 2018 
 
 An Amber Alert was issued Monday for Jayme and several law enforcement agencies have joined the search. 
 
 Motive in parents' death is unclear 
 
 Deputies are also trying to solve the killings of Jayme's parents, James Closs, 56, and Denise Closs, 46, in the small city of Barron. 
 
 During a 911 call shortly before 1 a.m. Monday, the dispatcher heard a disturbance in the background. But no one spoke directly to the dispatcher, Fitzgerald said. 
 
 When deputes arrived to the home less than four minutes later, Fitzgerald said, no one was in sight and no vehicles were in the immediate area. 
 
 Closs' parents were shot and their deaths have been ruled homicides, Fitzgerald said Wednesday. No gun was found at the scene, he said. 
 
 It's not clear how long James and Denise Closs had been dead when their bodies were discovered Monday. 
 
 On HLN's "Crime & Justice" Wednesday night, Fitzgerald told host Ashleigh Banfield that deputies had recovered the cell phone from which the 911 call was made. 
 
 Fitzgerald said additional agencies, including the FBI, are involved. "They are the experts in breaking down 911 tapes, looking at our phones, and taking care of all evidence in that manner," he said. 
 
 Authorities said they have determined whose cell phone the call came from, but declined to identify the owner. 
 
 Investigators also believe Jayme was at home during the shooting based on details from the 911 call and evidence from the home. 
 
 "Is it a random attack or a targeted attack? I don't know that answer," Fitzgerald told reporters. "That's why those leads are so important." 
 
 Joan Smrekar, who lives next door to the Closs home, told Banfield she heard two shots a couple of seconds apart just after 12:30 a.m. Monday. 
 
 "It was just, 'bang' and 'bang,'" Smrekar said. 
 
 Relatives wait in agony 
 
 Seara Closs said she wishes she were the one endangered, not her cousin Jayme. Seara wrote an open letter to Jayme on Facebook. 
 
 "I'm going thru our family pictures, worrying sick about you :( wishing we could trade places just to get you home and out of harms way," Seara Closs posted 
 
 In her post, Seara reminded her cousin that her family -- including her slain parents -- love her dearly. 
 
 "Grandpa Jim (James) Closs, your Momma Bear, Denise Closs and your very own night [in] shinning armor, your Daddyo Jim JR Closs ... love all of you!" Seara Closs wrote. 
 
 Authorities said they don't believe Jayme Closs ran away. 
 
 Barron Area School District administrator Diane Tremblay said Jayme, a member of her school's cross-country team, is a "sweet girl who is a loyal friend and loves to dance." 
 
 During a recent school assignment, Jayme was asked what she would do with $1 million, Tremblay said. Jayme wrote that she would "feed the hungry and give the rest to the poor." 
 
 Both James and Denise Closs were long-time employees of the Jennie-O Turkey Store in Barron, Jennie-O's parent company Hormel said. 
 
 "Our thoughts are with the Closs family and the entire Barron community," said a statement from Jennie-O Turkey Store officials. 
 
 "This is a difficult time for our entire team and we are mourning this loss and are still processing this terrible tragedy. We are also hopeful for the safe return of their daughter, Jayme, and are keeping her and the Closs family in our thoughts." 
 
 Jayme Closs is 5 feet tall, weighs 100 pounds and has green eyes and blond or strawberry blond hair, the sheriff's department said. Anyone with information can call the tip line at 1-855-744-3879. 
 
 Correction: A prior version of this story incorrectly spelled the missing girl's last name. ||||| Jayme Closs (Photo: Barron County Sheriff's Department) 
 
 BARRON - A 100-person search party and some 800 tips still have not led Barron County authorities to Jayme Closs, a 13-year-old girl missing since her parents were found shot to death in their home early Monday. 
 
 Meanwhile, police from Wausau sent a school resource officer and therapy dog Thursday to help Barron students cope with the mysterious disappearance of a schoolmate and double murder in their community. 
 
 The state justice department's Office of School Safety also plans to send a team of counselors by the end of the week. 
 
 Barron residents James Closs, 56, and Denise Closs, 46, were found dead about 1 a.m. Monday after police responded to a cellphone call to 911 from inside the home. Their daughter Jayme, a student at Riverview Middle School, was nowhere to be found. 
 
 The incident, and the fact that authorities still don't know what transpired in the Closs home Sunday night, has rattled the quiet town of fewer than 3,500 people. 
 
 “We don’t know anything and that’s hard,” said Cyndi Bragg, who owns InFocus Eyewear in Barron and has lived in the area for 25 years. 
 
 She said the whole community is on edge and “stuck in limbo” as they await more information. Meanwhile, she’s told her children to be aware of their surroundings, and her family is taking extra care to lock their door. 
 
 Buy Photo Volunteers search a ditch near Barron, Wisconsin, on Thursday, Oct. 18, 2018, looking for any evidence related to missing 13-year-old Jayme Closs. The girl hasn't been seen since before her parents were discovered shot to death early Monday in the family home. (Photo: Haley BeMiller/USA TODAY NETWORK-Wisconsin) 
 
 On Thursday afternoon, Barron County Sheriff Chris Fitzgerald posted a plea on Facebook for 100 "able-bodied volunteers" to help in the search for evidence related to her disappearance. The volunteers then spread out to search specific areas near the community. 
 
 The sheriff called it a "routine search for articles of evidentiary value." Two hours after the search began he posted a Facebook update that said nothing had been found related to Jayme's disappearance. 
 
 One of the volunteers out in the field was Ashley Vandenvrink, who lives roughly 30 minutes from Barron in Clayton. Volunteers were looking for just about anything that might seem suspicious, she said. 
 
 Vandenvrink is a mother of four, which inspired her to help with the search. 
 
 “It’s heartbreaking,” she said. “That could’ve been my daughter. That could’ve been anybody’s kid.” 
 
 Fitzgerald also wrote that the sheriff's office had received more than 800 tips since Monday morning and asked that people with information continue to report it by calling 855-744-3879. 
 
 Buy Photo Badge, the Wausau Police Department's trained therapy dog, awaits her chance to help students in Barron cope with the disappearance of 13-year-old schoolmate Jayme Closs. (Photo: Haley BeMiller/USA TODAY NETWORK-Wisconsin) 
 
 Wausau Police Chief Ben Bliven, whose department was affected by a mass shooting in March 2017 that drew national attention, said he was eager to help Barron — though the communities are more than two hours apart. 
 
 "There comes a time in every community when help is needed; we have certainly experienced that need for help,” Bliven said in a statement. 
 
 RELATED: Barron parents shot to death, Wisconsin teen still missing 
 
 RELATED: Here's what we know about the Jayme Closs disappearance 
 
 Wausau School Resource Officer Nick Stetzer visited the Barron schools with his therapy dog, Badge. Stetzer said students and staff enjoyed seeing the dog and one girl even asked if she could take Badge home with her. 
 
 Trauma is difficult for everyone to handle, Stetzer said, but the therapy dog can provide love to anyone without judgment. 
 
 “A couple seconds of relief of petting the dog and not thinking about stuff definitely helps when it comes to trauma,” he said. 
 
 Buy Photo Wausau School Resource Officer Nick Stetzer works with his therapy dog, Badge, outside Barron schools on Thursday, Oct. 18. Stetzer and Badge visited with students and staff reeling from the disappearance of schoolmate Jayme Closs and the shooting deaths of her parents, James and Denise Closs. (Photo: Haley BeMiller/USA TODAY NETWORK-Wisconsin) 
 
 Kristen Devitt, director of the state's Office of School Safety, said the additional counseling and therapy resources can help the community now and going forward. The office is working with Barron County Human Services on crisis response so the county can eventually take on that role full time. 
 
 Trying to cope with the traumatic losses in Barron is frightening and anxiety-producing for local residents, Devitt said. 
 
 “There isn’t anyone in this community that this hasn’t touched,” she said. 
 
 The Wisconsin Safe and Healthy Schools Training & Technical Assistance Center will also provide training to school staff and counselors on trauma-informed practices and PREPaRE, which outlines how school professionals can provide mental health support in a crisis. 
 
 All services will be funded through an emergency grant from the state justice department, according to Attorney General Brad Schimel. 
 
 Buy Photo Investigators use a canine Tuesday to help search the grounds near the Closs home in Barron. (Photo: TZ Kha/USA TODAY NETWORK-Wisconsin) 
 
 Read or Share this story: https://www.wausaudailyherald.com/story/news/2018/10/18/jayme-closs-wausau-police-department-send-aid-barron-schools/1682096002/ ||||| ... 
 
 for the Wisconsin Home Energy Assistance Program (WHEAP)? This is a one-time heat and electric benefit. Whether you use wood, propane, natural gas, electricity or fuel oil to heat your home, you may be eligible. When you receive benefits from the Wisconsin Home Energy Assistance Program, you are automatically placed on a referral list for possible weatherization services for your home, such as insulation and sealing air leaks, at no cost to you. If you qualify for WHEAP, own your home, and your primary heating system no longer provides heat, is inoperable or becomes unsafe, you may be potentially eligible for emergency heating system assistance. If you would like to find out more about WHEAP, please call 715-537-6340. 
 
 With the cold weather upon us, did you know that you may be eligible