Source: Multi-News


 
 Rachael D'Amore, CTV Toronto 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Toronto District School Board will join other schools in southwestern Ontario who have decided to cancel trips to the U.S., citing concerns over muddled U.S. border restrictions. 
 
 John Malloy, the TDSB Director of Education, said that 24 trips to the U.S. already approved by the board will proceed for now, but that no new trips will be arranged. 
 
 The pre-approved trips involve approximately 800 students, as well as 100 students headed to the DECA competition. 
 
 “While already-approved trips are proceeding at this time, it’s important to note that should the Executive Order be fully implemented, resulting in any of our students being excluded from trips across the U.S. border, then the Board has asked me to cancel already-approved trips to the U.S. for the remainder of the school year,” he said in a statement published to the TDSB website Thursday. 
 
 Malloy said the board is prepared to reimburse students, parents and staff of the trip costs should this occur. 
 
 “We do not make this decision lightly,” he said, “but given the uncertainty of these new travel restrictions and when they may come into effect, if at all, we strongly believe that our students should not be placed into these situations of potentially being turned away at the border.” 
 
 Though an executive order was handed down by U.S. President Donald Trump earlier this month, banning travel from citizens of six Muslim-majority countries, it is currently not in effect. 
 
 Federal court judges in Hawaii and Maryland blocked the order ahead of it being put in place, calling it a violation of the U.S. constitution. 
 
 While the order does not affect permanent residents or citizens of Canada, Malloy said the board does not want to risk having any one of their students turned away at the border. 
 
 TDSB spokesperson Ryan Bird said Thursday that the board decided to allow the prearranged trips to go forward because they haven’t encountered an issue at the border with their students in the past. 
 
 “Right now we’re staying no new U.S. trips. Having said that, if we get clarification or if we get more information that maybe changes that, obviously we’ll revisit these decisions,” he told CP24. 
 
 Bird said that if a student does encounter an issue at the border on a pre-approved trip, the whole group will turn around. 
 
 “It’s not about politics, it’s about our principles as a school board to be inclusive and equitable. It’s not who’s in change, it’s not where they’re going,” Bird said. 
 
 “If our students can’t go somewhere for no legitimate reason, they’re being excluded from these trips. We don’t want them in those situations so that’s why we’re taking these additional steps.” 
 
 The Greater Essex County District School Board made a similar decision in February, though it was only in effect for that month. 
 
 Ryerson University also suspended trips to the U.S. earlier this month, citing similar concerns about border restrictions. 
 
 More recently, the Girl Guides of Canada announced last week that it is cancelling any trips to the U.S. over similar uncertainties. ||||| Canada’s largest school board will not approve any new student trips to the United States in the wake of controversial travel restrictions proposed by President Donald Trump. However, 25 trips involving about 900 Toronto District School Board students that are already scheduled for this spring will go ahead as planned unless circumstances change, TDSB education director John Malloy wrote in a letter to principals Thursday. 
 
 The Toronto District School Board has decided that director of education John Malloy will be able to cancel school trips to the U.S. if travel restrictions prevent students or staff from crossing the border. ( Lucas Oleniuk / Toronto Star file photo ) 
 
 Given the uncertainty over the proposed travel restrictions, “we strongly believe that our students should not be placed into these situations of potentially being turned away at the border,” Malloy said. The board’s plan — approved unanimously by trustees at a board meeting late Wednesday night — was to strike a balance between ensuring safety and inclusion for students, without causing financial loss and disappointment by cancelling the spring trips kids had planned and fundraised for over many months. Ikran Jama, 17, says the decision is good news for her and fellow students at York Memorial Collegiate who have been planning a four-day trip to New York City since last September. 
 
 Article Continued Below 
 
 “Students have worked so hard for this,” says the Grade 12 student, adding they have been selling cookies and popcorn, and holding concerts to raise money for the May visit, which will include giving a musical performance at a retirement home. Jama’s parents are from Somalia — one of the six Muslim-majority countries whose citizens could be refused entry to the U.S. if Trump’s proposed travel restrictions are put in place. She and many of her friends whose families immigrated from the six countries affected are nervous about what will happen when the bus stops at the border, even though they have Canadian passports, she says. But hearing that the school board has a plan in place helps, she added. The plan means there will be no trips to the U.S. approved for the 2017-2018 school year. But still on track are 24 separate trips involving about 800 students, and plans for about 100 youth from different schools to attend an international business competition in California. 
 
 In the event that any student or staff member on a trip this spring is refused entry at the border as a result of U.S. travel policy, everyone on the trip would return home and Malloy would be permitted to cancel remaining trips for this year, according to the motion approved by trustees. He could also cancel trips if travel restrictions are put in place in the next couple of months, with the board reimbursing students for costs that aren’t covered by insurance. 
 
 Article Continued Below 
 
 The TDSB is the latest to join the growing ranks of organizations altering travel policies amid concerns that members of their groups could be denied entry at the border. Earlier this month, Girl Guides of Canada cancelled trips to the U.S., citing safety concerns and uncertainty at the border, and to ensure all guides can participate in group travel. This week, Ryerson University and the Greater Essex County School Board followed suit and suspended trips. Other GTA boards have not announced cancellations. “Schools continue to be allowed to plan, but as always, know that these trips can be cancelled at any time if travel advisories change,” said Carla Pereira, spokesperson for the Peel District School Board. The Toronto Catholic District School Board has not suspended trips to the U.S. or abroad, however “we continue to monitor the situation,” said spokesperson John Yan. Malloy had originally been scheduled to provide TDSB trustees with an update Wednesday on a situation that board staff are watching closely. But Trustee Shelley Laskin, who has heard from concerned parents, moved a motion that his plan be approved on the spot to address uncertainty for students, their families and school staff. “It’s pretty clear there’s consensus that we’re not going to put our students at risk,” she said. The move was supported by student trustee Shams Mehdi, a Grade 11 student at Leaside High School, who noted that a substantial amount of time, money and planning resources have gone into trips already booked for this spring. The plan is “the appropriate decision to be made at this time,” he said. 
 
 Read more about: ||||| (CNN) Canada's largest school system announced it will no longer allow student or staff trips to the US, citing uncertainty over the travel ban . 
 
 Toronto District School Board expressed concern over how the US immigration policy could affect students on school trips. 
 
 "We strongly believe that our students should not be placed into these situations of potentially being turned away at the border," the board's director of education, John Malloy, said in a statement. 
 
 Under the travel ban, citizens from six different Muslim-majority countries may not be allowed in the US under certain circumstances. The ban affects people outside of those six countries as well, since citizens from those countries could be living elsewhere, like Canada. 
 
 Trump's new travel ban: One thing to know 
 
 Trump's new travel ban: One thing to know 01:25 
 
 Trump's new travel ban: One thing to know 
 
 The US travel ban has not taken effect after rulings by two federal judges that temporarily blocked President Donald Trump's executive order. White House press secretary Sean Spicer has said the Trump administration plans to appeal 
 
 The ongoing predicament left the Toronto District School Board with what it called a "difficult choice." 
 
 The board decided that the 24 pre-approved trips to the US would continue, but it will not permit new ones. 
 
 "We feel it strikes a balance between our equity and inclusion commitments as a school board, while not canceling already approved trips for which a financial loss would be incurred," Malloy's statement said. 
 
 The board serves 246,000 students in 584 schools throughout Toronto. 
 
 Its decision is similar to one made earlier this month by the Girl Guides of Canada, which is a Canadian version of the Girl Scouts. 
 
 The Girl Guides had announced it would no longer authorize trips to the United States and that it would avoid connecting flights through the country. 
 
 The group had called it a "very difficult decision to make," in a notice that didn't specifically mention Trump's travel ban, but the message directly referred to the current immigration situation. 
 
 "While the United States is a frequent destination for Guiding trips, the ability of all our members to equally enter this country is currently uncertain," its statement read.