Source: Multi-News

Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney shares a laugh with President Obama after finishing up the first presidential debate at the University of Denver. 
 
 Oct. 3, 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney shares a laugh with President Obama after finishing up the first presidential debate at the University of Denver. Marvin Joseph/The Washington Post 
 
 President Barack Obama walks on stage during a campaign event on Thursday, Oct. 4, in Denver. Click here for photos from last night’s presidential debate. 
 
 President Barack Obama walks on stage during a campaign event on Thursday, Oct. 4, in Denver. Click here for photos from last night’s presidential debate. 
 
 A day after his subdued debate performance, President Obama delivered a feistier critique of Republican nominee Mitt Romney, telling 12,000 supporters on Thursday that his rival had misrepresented his positions because “he does not want to be held accountable.” 
 
 Obama said the “very spirited fellow who claimed to be Mitt Romney” onstage at the University of Denver was an imposter who suddenly was dancing “around his positions” on tax cuts, education and outsourcing. 
 
 “It couldn’t have been the real Mitt Romney,” Obama told 12,300 supporters at Sloane’s Lake Park, “because the real Mitt Romney has been running around the country all year promising $5 trillion in tax cuts to the wealthy, but the fellow onstage last night did not know anything about that. The real Mitt Romney said we do not need any more teachers in the classroom, but the fellow onstage said he loves teachers, can’t get enough of them.” 
 
 Obama added that Romney misled viewers during the debate because he “knows full well that we don’t want what he’s been selling for the last year.” 
 
 The Obama campaign is hoping that by attacking Romney’s truthfulness, it can create a counter-narrative that while Romney might have won on style points, the president had offered more substance and consistency. The campaign has already produced a television ad with footage of Romney denying that his tax cut plan would cost $5 trillion and a tagline that says: “How can we trust Mitt Romney.” 
 
 Obama’s more direct and combative approach Thursday contrasted with what many observers felt was the lackluster effort he gave during the televised debate. Republicans quickly declared victory after the debate, and even some Democrats criticized the president for failing to confront Romney over his positions and statements. 
 
 Obama’s campaign aides began doing that early Thursday, making the rounds of morning cable television news shows and in a conference call with reporters. But they did acknowledged that it was not the president’s best performance and that changes could be made before the second presidential debate Oct. 16 in Hofstra, N.Y. 
 
 “We’re going to take a hard look at this,” senior campaign adviser David Axelrod said in a conference call with reporters. He added that the campaign will “have to make some judgments about where to draw the lines in these debates” and how to allocate its time during the answers. 
 
 Asked why the president had not attacked Romney on his time at Bain Capital and his dismissive “47 percent” remarks, Axelrod explained that the campaign did not think viewers wanted to hear Obama and Romney insulting each other. 
 
 At the same time, he continued to make the case that Romney had not been forthright with the public on several issues. 
 
 “He may win the Oscar for his performance last night, but he’s not going to win the presidency,” Axelrod insisted. 
 
 The Romney campaign scoffed at the criticism. Spokeswoman Amanda Henneberg said: “The Obama campaign’s conference call today was just like the president’s performance last night. The campaign, like the president, offered no defense of the president’s first term record or vision for a second term, and instead, offered nothing but false attacks, petulant statements and lies about Governor Romney’s record.” 
 
 At the outdoor rally, Obama followed up on Axelrod’s line of attack, saying “if you want to be president, you owe the American people the truth.” 
 
 The crowd appeared to appreciate the president’s directness. One man yelled out “Liar!” when the president said Romney was not coming clean on his record on outsourcing jobs while heading Bain Capital. 
 
 And Obama even delivered a zinger, mocking Romney’s statement during the debate that he would eliminate government funding for PBS, even though he likes Big Bird. 
 
 “Thank goodness someone is getting tough on Big Bird,” he said. “We didn’t know that Big Bird was driving the federal deficit.” 
 
 “And Elmo!” someone shouted. 
 
 “Elmo too,” the president replied. ||||| Looking for a quick recovery from a disappointing debate, President Barack Obama questioned the identity of the "real" Mitt Romney on Thursday, suggesting his Republican rival had not been candid about his policy positions while on stage. 
 
 "Gov. Romney may dance around his positions but if you want to be president, you owe the American people the truth," Obama said at a post-debate rally. 
 
 Romney's campaign dismissed the criticism as "damage control." 
 
 Obama's aggressive stand came as his campaign conceded he will have to adjust his debate style. Wednesday's night event was widely viewed as a win for Romney and a lost opportunity for Obama to connect with the American people as national polls had showed him with a slight advantage heading into their first debate. 
 
 Obama said that when he reached the debate stage "I met this very spirited fellow who claimed to be Mitt Romney. But it couldn't have been Mitt Romney," Obama said, adding that the "real Mitt Romney has been running around the country for the last year promising $5 trillion in tax cuts that favor the wealthy. The fellow on stage last night said he didn't know anything about that." 
 
 The president also accused Romney of misrepresenting past statements on education and outsourcing. In tough comments, the president said Romney "does not want to be held accountable ... because he knows full well that we don't want what he's selling." 
 
 Obama panned Romney's suggestion during the debate that one way to pare back federal spending is to cut the subsidy for PBS, which airs "Sesame Street." Romney said he likes PBS and "I love Big Bird," but said the country couldn't afford to keep borrowing money from China to pay for things like that. 
 
 "When he was asked what he'd actually do to cut the deficit and reduce spending, he said he'd eliminate funding for public television. That was his answer. I mean thank goodness somebody is finally getting tough on Big Bird. It's about time," Obama joked. "We didn't know that Big Bird was driving the federal deficit. But that's what we heard last night. How about that? Elmo, too?" 
 
 Romney campaign spokesman Ryan Williams responded to the accusations of dishonesty by saying Romney demonstrated in the debate why he should be president. 
 
 "In full damage-control mode, President Obama today offered no defense of his record and no vision for the future," Williams said. "Rather than a plan to fix our economy, President Obama simply offered more false attacks and renewed his call for job-killing tax hikes." 
 
 In a conference call with reporters, Obama senior adviser David Axelrod said the president would make "adjustments" and would need to determine by the next presidential debate on Oct. 16 in Hempstead, N.Y., how best to counter what the campaign considers Romney's evasions on a series of issues. 
 
 Comparing it to a playoff game in sports, Axelrod said: "You evaluate after every contest and you make adjustments and I'm sure that we will make adjustments. I don't see us adding huge amounts of additional prep times. There are some strategic judgments that have to be made and we'll make them." 
 
 Axelrod sought to turn the questions about the debate into a matter of character, repeatedly accusing Romney of "hiding the truth and the facts" from the American people. 
 
 "It was a very vigorous performance, but one that was devoid of honesty," Axelrod said of Romney. He said the Republican presidential nominee offered well-delivered but "fraudulent" lines that will be hard to hold up over the remainder of the campaign. 
 
 Building on that narrative, Obama's campaign quickly released an ad questioning Romney's truthfulness, arguing that he didn't level with middle-class families on how his tax plan would affect them. "If we can't trust him here, how could we ever trust him here?" the ad says. It was airing in Colorado, Florida, Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada, Ohio and Virginia. ||||| MADISON, Wis. — A fired-up President Barack Obama on Thursday threw the punches he pulled in his first debate against Mitt Romney. 
 
 The president — as feisty as he was low-key onstage Wednesday night — spent 20 minutes in his first post-debate speech mocking the genial, centrist Romney of that debate as an imposter who misled the American people. 
 
 Text Size - 
 
 + 
 
 reset 
 
 “Gov. Romney may dance around his positions, but if you want to be president, you owe the American people the truth,” Obama told a crowd of about 12,000 in Denver. 
 
 Later in the day, he addressed his biggest rally of the campaign so far — 30,000 at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, according to the school’s police chief — in a major attempt to change the conversation. Thousands more lined the motorcade route. 
 
 On stage at the first of three presidential debates, “I met this very spirited fellow who claimed to be Mitt Romney, but it couldn’t have been Mitt Romney,” Obama said in Denver. That person was not “the real Mitt Romney,” the candidate who has spent the last year “promising $5 trillion in tax cuts that favor the wealthy. The fellow on stage last night said he didn’t know anything about that.” 
 
 Obama seemed relieved to be in the more inviting environs of a pep rally at a lakeside park miles from the debate venue at the University of Denver. Appearing in a half-zipped windbreaker, he leaned forward on the lectern as he spoke, a sign that he was genuinely enthusiastic, according to his aides. 
 
 By the time Air Force One made its way to Madison, some staffers were giddy — Valerie Jarrett was taking pictures of the crowd and joined David Plouffe on a hydraulic lift to get a better view of the scene. It was Obama’s largest rally in almost two years, when he drew 35,000 to Ohio State. 
 
 In both speeches, Obama seized on the one gaffe committed by Romney during an otherwise commanding performance: Romney’s awkward joke about cutting funding for PBS. 
 
 Asked how he would cut the deficit, Romney said he would end the federal government’s support for PBS. Then, he joked to moderator Jim Lehrer of PBS: “I like PBS, I like Big Bird, I actually like you, too.” 
 
 Obama mocked that response on Thursday. “He’ll get rid of regulations on Wall Street, but he’s going to crack down on Sesame Street,” he said in Madison. 
 
 “When he was asked what he’d actually do to cut the deficit and reduce spending, he said he’d eliminate funding for public television. That was his answer,” Obama said in Denver. 
 
 “I mean thank goodness somebody is finally getting tough on Big Bird. It’s about time,” he said to laughter. “We didn’t know that Big Bird was driving the federal deficit. But that’s what we heard last night. … Elmo too?” 
 
 Romney spokesman Ryan Williams said Obama was “in full damage-control mode” after the debate and “offered no defense of his record and no vision for the future.” 
 
 “Rather than a plan to fix our economy, President Obama simply offered more false attacks and renewed his call for job-killing tax hikes. Last night, Mitt Romney demonstrated why he should be president, laying out the clear choice in this election.” 
 
 Before Obama’s morning rally, campaign senior adviser David Axelrod had previewed the new theme — “The Two Mitts” — in a conference call with reporters, suggesting that Romney “may win the Oscar for his performance last night, but he’s not going to win the presidency.” 
 
 Glenn Thrush reported from Denver and Madison, Wis. Jennifer Epstein reported from Arlington, Va. ||||| Obama, the day after, slams Romney's claims By Jonathan Easley - Tweet President Obama didn’t repeat the mistake of his lackluster debate performance in his first post-debate appearance on Thursday, coming out swinging at Mitt Romney. 
 
 
 
 “We had our first debate last night,” Obama said at an outdoor event at Sloan’s Lake Park in Denver on Thursday. “When I got onto the stage I met this very spirited fellow who claimed to be Mitt Romney. But it couldn’t have been Mitt Romney, because the real Mitt Romney has been running around the country all year promising $5 trillion in tax cuts for the wealthy. The fellow onstage last night said he didn’t know anything about that.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Romney defended his tax plan after facing repeated claims from Obama that it would hurt the middle class and explode the deficit. The former Massachusetts governor said his plan to cut tax rates across-the-board would be paid for by ending tax preferences for the highest earners, and said that under no circumstances would he increase the tax burden on the middle class. 
 
 
 
 One of the few moments of levity came when Romney said part of his plan to reduce federal spending would be to cut funding to public television. 
 
 
 
 “I like PBS; I love Big Bird. Actually I like you, too,” Romney said to debate moderator Jim Lehrer, the host of PBS's "NewsHour." “But I'm not going to keep on spending money on things to borrow money from China to pay for." 
 
 
 
 Obama had a ready-made quip to play off the remark, and used it to hammer Romney over his tax plan. 
 
 
 
 “When asked what he would do to reduce the deficit, he said he would cut funding to public television,” Obama said Thursday. “That was his answer. Thanks goodness somebody is finally getting tough on Big Bird. It’s about time. We didn’t know that Big Bird was driving the federal deficit. His math doesn’t add up, and I had to spend a lot of time last night trying to pin him down.” 
 
 
 
 Obama also hit Romney over other instances from the debate in which he said the GOP challenger had flip-flopped. 
 
 
 
 “The real Mitt Romney said we didn’t need more teachers in our classrooms,” Obama continued. “But the fellow onstage last night, he loves teachers, can’t get enough of them. The Mitt Romney we all know invested in companies that were pioneers in outsourcing. But the guy onstage last night said he doesn’t even know about laws that encourage offshoring. 
 
 
 
 “He said that if it’s true he must need a new accountant. Now, we know for sure it was not the real Mitt Romney because he seems to be doing just fine with his current accountant. So you see, the man onstage last night — he doesn’t want to be held accountable for the real Mitt Romney and what he’s been saying for the last year, and that’s because he knows full well we don’t want what the real Mitt Romney has been selling for the last year.” Obama seemed to be knocked off message in the early stages of Wednesday’s debate, as taxes, and an aggressive Romney, dominated the opening segments.Romney defended his tax plan after facing repeated claims from Obama that it would hurt the middle class and explode the deficit. The former Massachusetts governor said his plan to cut tax rates across-the-board would be paid for by ending tax preferences for the highest earners, and said that under no circumstances would he increase the tax burden on the middle class.One of the few moments of levity came when Romney said part of his plan to reduce federal spending would be to cut funding to public television.“I like PBS; I love Big Bird. Actually I like you, too,” Romney said to debate moderator Jim Lehrer, the host of PBS's "NewsHour." “But I'm not going to keep on spending money on things to borrow money from China to pay for."Obama had a ready-made quip to play off the remark, and used it to hammer Romney over his tax plan.“When asked what he would do to reduce the deficit, he said he would cut funding to public television,” Obama said Thursday. “That was his answer. Thanks goodness somebody is finally getting tough on Big Bird. It’s about time. We didn’t know that Big Bird was driving the federal deficit. His math doesn’t add up, and I had to spend a lot of time last night trying to pin him down.”Obama also hit Romney over other instances from the debate in which he said the GOP challenger had flip-flopped.“The real Mitt Romney said we didn’t need more teachers in our classrooms,” Obama continued. “But the fellow onstage last night, he loves teachers, can’t get enough of them. The Mitt Romney we all know invested in companies that were pioneers in outsourcing. But the guy onstage last night said he doesn’t even know about laws that encourage offshoring.“He said that if it’s true he must need a new accountant. Now, we know for sure it was not the real Mitt Romney because he seems to be doing just fine with his current accountant. So you see, the man onstage last night — he doesn’t want to be held accountable for the real Mitt Romney and what he’s been saying for the last year, and that’s because he knows full well we don’t want what the real Mitt Romney has been selling for the last year.” Romney spokesman Ryan Williams shot back in an email to The Hill, saying the president was in "full damage-control mode" from the debate. 
 
 “In full damage-control mode, President Obama today offered no defense of his record and no vision for the future," Williams said. "Rather than a plan to fix our economy, President Obama simply offered more false attacks and renewed his call for job-killing tax hikes. Last night, Mitt Romney demonstrated why he should be President, laying out the clear choice in this election. We can’t afford four more years of the last four years. We need a real recovery – and Mitt Romney has a real plan to deliver it.” 
 
 Tweet View Comments Source: 
 
 http://thehill.com/blogs/ballot-box/presidential-races/260311-obama-on-debate-i-met-this-very-spirited-fellow-who-claimed-to-be-mitt-romney The Hill Archives: Senate | House | Administration | Campaign | Business & Lobbying | Capital Living | Opinion View News by Subject: 
 
 Defense & Homeland Security | Energy & Environment | Healthcare | Finance & Economy | Technology | Foreign Policy | Labor | Transportation & Infrastructure