Source: Multi-News

NASA says it's the second-most watched clock in the world, behind the Big Ben clock in London. It's the Kennedy Space Center countdown clock, familiar in hundreds of launch pictures, and on Monday, it was removed. 
 
 Images: Best spots to see KSC rocket launches On a clear day and especially at night, rocket launches from NASA’s Kennedy Space Center can be seen from hundreds of miles away in the Central Florida area. Those looking for something more up-close can go to these areas of the Space Coast that offer public access. More 
 
 Watch this report 
 
 The clock first made its appearance in the heady days of Apollo, for Apollo 12 in November 1969. It was there for all six other moon launches and all 135 space shuttle launches. 
 
 Central Floridians watched the clock through a lot of suspenseful moments and a lot of weather delays. 
 
 "To keep it going, or [use] parts which we have to make ourselves, is just not practical," said George Diller, NASA public information specialist. 
 
 The clock has 336 light bulbs. You could call Bruce Hodge the clock-master. Hodge has changed every last one of those bulbs multiple times. 
 
 "Run through the numbers; make sure they all work," he said. "Do that for every launch." 
 
 Hodge supervised the removal of the old countdown clock. He's kept it running for 40 of its 45 years. 
 
 Also see: Leon County deputy shot, killed in house fire ambush north of Tallahassee 
 
 A new clock, looking just like the old one but with fancy graphics and electronics will be in place for next week's big Orion test launch. 
 
 The old icon is on its way to the Kennedy Space Center Visitor Complex. 
 
 Related: Best spots to see KSC rocket launches ||||| NASA retires iconic KSC countdown clock Posted: Monday, November 24, 2014 5:22 PM EST Updated: Monday, January 19, 2015 5:22 PM EST 
 
 It outlasted decades of American spacecraft, from Apollo to Skylab to the space shuttle. But now, the historic countdown clock at Kennedy Space Center is itself headed for retirement. 
 
 For 40 years, the clock has been a silent witness to history -- well, almost silent. Up close, you could hear the quaint whirs and clunks of the analog 1960s technology hidden behind its faded blue facade. 
 
 Those digital-style numbers were actually made up of dozens of 40-watt incandescent bulbs. The clock's internal systems required fans to cool the motors through all those hot Florida days, while the frequent summertime lightning storms also took a toll on the clock's circuits. 
 
 Throw in the inescapable corrosion from all that salty sea air, and the clock -- as iconic as it was -- just became too much to keep up. 
 
 "The clock is old. It's taken a lot of maintenance to keep it going," NASA spokesman George Diller explained. "It was getting to be very labor-intensive and we're not able to continue to maintain it for every launch." 
 
 The clock dates back to Apollo 12 in 1969. Along with the flagpole next to it, it's part of the Complex 39 Press Site, which is on the National Register of Historic Places. But even when the clock wasn't ticking, time was marching on. 
 
 Kennedy Space Center and nearby Cape Canaveral Air Force Station are filled with historic items that played crucial roles in the space race before being abandoned or scrapped. It's par for the course at a working spaceport. 
 
 Launch Complex 39 -- where the Apollo moon missions and space shuttle flights left the earth -- is being rebuilt for giant new rockets, both public and private. And the hangars that used to house the shuttles are being refitted for new spacecraft, like the Air Force's robotic mini-shuttle and Boeing's manned capsule. 
 
 When America's next generation of spacecraft blasts off in December, NASA officials hope a new clock will be in place for the countdown. The agency is adding a modern video display board -- similar to what you'd see at a stadium -- that can do more than just tick. 
 
 But Diller said the agency is mindful of not disrupting that classic last-few-seconds-of-the-countdown view too much. 
 
 "At a distance, you'll be hard-pressed to see the difference," he insisted. 
 
 The old clock, meanwhile, won't go completely dark. Workers hauled it away in three sections Monday but the plan is to refurbish it and move it down the road to the Kennedy Space Center Visitor Complex, where space shuttle Atlantis now lives as a museum piece. 
 
 Best-case scenario, according to Diller, would be for the clock to eventually be hooked back up to the space center's timing circuits, allowing it to continue to count down for launches from its new location. 
 
 If all goes well, the giant numbers that counted down for missions to the moon decades ago may -- one day -- count down the seconds towards a mission to Mars. ||||| The clock first made its appearance in the heady days of Apollo, for Apollo 12 in November 1969. (Source: WESH/CNN) 
 
 KENNEDY SPACE CENTER, FL (WESH/CNN) - A piece of space history was retired on Tuesday. 
 
 NASA is sending the Apollo countdown clock to the space museum. 
 
 Bruce Hodge, the clockmaster, supervised the removal of the old countdown clock that he's kept running for 40 of its 45 years. 
 
 The clock first made its appearance in the heady days of Apollo, for Apollo 12 in November 1969. It was there for all six other moon launches and all 135 space shuttle launches. People watched that clock through a lot of suspenseful moments and a lot of weather delays. 
 
 "To keep it going, or parts which we have to make ourselves is just not practical," said George Diller, NASA Public Information Specialist) 
 
 The numerals are made of old fashioned 40-watt light bulbs similar to the kind once used in refrigerators. There are 336 of those bulbs. 
 
 Hodge changed every last one of those bulbs multiple times, "run through the numbers, make sure they all work short of the countdown. Do that for every launch. Make sure they all work." 
 
 A new clock, looking just like the old one but with fancy graphics and electronics, will be in place for next week's big Orion test launch. The old icon is on its way to the Kennedy Space Center visitor complex. 
 
 Copyright 2014 WESH via CNN. All rights reserved.