Source: Multi-News

Thanks to favorable weather conditions, below-average snow levels and assistance from the Wyoming Department of Transportation, Yellowstone National Park will open the roads from West Yellowstone and Mammoth Hot Springs to Old Faithful on Friday. 
 
 Budget cuts because of sequestration had pushed the opening day back to April 26 this spring as the park delayed its snow plowing work to save money. But that delay is no longer necessary. 
 
 The roads from West Yellowstone and Mammoth Hot Springs to Old Faithful will open at 8 a.m. on Friday. 
 
 Weather permitting, the road from Norris Junction through Canyon and Fishing Bridge to the park’s East Entrance will open to travel on May 3. Travel through the South Entrance to Grant Village, West Thumb Junction and on to Fishing Bridge is set to open May 10. The road from West Thumb Junction to Old Faithful will open sometime after May 10. 
 
 Restroom facilities will be available at Madison Junction and Old Faithful starting April 19, with pay-at-the-pump fuel available 24 hours a day at the upper and lower service stations. 
 
 The Old Faithful Visitor Education Center, the Geyser Grill and the Bear Den Gift Shop will open for the season on April 26. The Old Faithful Snow Lodge, Cabins and Restaurant, the Old Faithful Upper Store and the Lower Service Station convenience store all open for the season on May 3. 
 
 Park entrance fees will be waived April 22-26 as part of National Park Week. A seven-day pass to Yellowstone and Grand Teton National Parks is normally $25 for a private, noncommercial vehicle. 
 
 Information on current conditions in the park is available online at http://www.nps.gov/yell/conditions.htm. Updated Yellowstone National Park road information is available 24 hours a day by calling 307-344-2117. ||||| Yellowstone National Park's Old Faithful erupting a column of steam and superhot water. 
 
 CREDIT: Dreamstime 
 
 View full size image 
 
 Old Faithful's underground plumbing looks more like a bagpipe than a flute, a new study of the Yellowstone National Park geyser finds. 
 
 A big chamber sits about 50 feet (15 meters) underground, located southwest of Old Faithful, researchers report in a study published online March 30 in the journal Geophysical Research Letters. The exact size can't be determined, but they estimate the egg-shaped void is at least 50 feet (15 m) tall and 60 feet (18 m) wide. The cavern connects to a pipe angled about 24 degrees that feeds Old Faithful's maw. 
 
 Tiny tremors extracted from seismic records collected in the 1990s revealed the shape of the cavern and geyser conduit. Popping gas bubbles create the tremors. Not only do the tremors map the shape of underground spaces, they can also track water. For the first time, scientists have a clear view of how Old Faithful works underground. 
 
 "We're able to locate with one- to two-meter precision the place where the boiling occurs," said Jean Vandemeulebrouck, a geophysicist at the University of Savoie in France. "We can see the water rising in the conduit." 
 
 How Old Faithful works 
 
 Old Faithful earned its name for its regular eruptions, which average every 92 minutes. 
 
 Just after an eruption, there's a 15-minute recharge period with low water levels. Then for about 50 minutes, water levels rise and seismic activity increases. The chamber never empties, but as steam bubbles fill the chamber, they can oscillate water in the conduit, eventually leading to a violent steam explosion. The bubble trap is what helps Old Faithful splash with smaller eruptions before fully blowing its top. 
 
 The research is another nail in the coffin for the long-standing idea that big geysers erupt from long, narrow tubes. Earlier this year, researchers working in Kamchatka's Valley of the Geysers showed the Russian geysers also erupted from conduits fed by caverns. As with Old Faithful, the geysers explode because of underground bubble traps. 
 
 Geysers are rare features — only about 1,000 exist around the world. To form a geyser, there must abundant groundwater, a volcanic heat source to warm the water, open spaces so the water can escape and a way to trap bubbles. 
 
 Vandemeulebrouck is now collaborating with the U.S. Geological Survey to study another Yellowstone National Park geyser, called Lone Star. Their preliminary results are similar to Old Faithful, he said. [Video: A Scenic Tour of Yellowstone National Park] 
 
 "I think this oscillating system is quite common in geysers," Vandemeulebrouck told OurAmazingPlanet. 
 
 Email Becky Oskin or follow her @beckyoskin. Follow us @OAPlanet, Facebook or Google+. Original article on LiveScience's OurAmazingPlanet.