Source: Multi-News

Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings. 
 
 May 20, 2014, 11:42 PM GMT / Updated May 21, 2014, 12:00 AM GMT 
 
 Five men were convicted Tuesday in Moscow in the 2006 execution-style murder of Russian investigative journalist Anna Politkovskaya, Russian state media reported. 
 
 Politkovskaya, a crusading reporter for the liberal newspaper Novaya Gazeta who worked almost full-time on documenting allegations of human rights violations in the breakaway province of Chechnya, was 48 when she was gunned down in the elevator of her apartment building in October 2006. 
 
 The murder raised worldwide questions about freedom of speech and of the press under Russian President Vladimir Putin — especially after three of the defendants were initially acquitted in 2009. The Supreme Court overturned those acquittals and ordered a new trial. ||||| People hold portraits of slain journalist Anna Politkovskaya on the sixth anniversary of her death, next to her block of flats in central Moscow October 7, 2012. 
 
 MOSCOW (Reuters) - Five men were convicted on Tuesday of murdering 2006 of investigative journalist and Kremlin critic Anna Politkovskaya, including three defendants who had been acquitted in a previous trial. 
 
 Politkovskaya's killing drew attention to the risks faced by Russians who challenge the authorities and deepened Western concerns for the rule of law under President Vladimir Putin, who was then serving his second term. 
 
 Another jury's 2009 acquittal of three of the men who were found guilty of murder on Tuesday embarrassed Russian prosecutors and was later thrown out by the Supreme Court, which ordered a new trial. 
 
 The defendants were three Chechen brothers, one of whom was accused of shooting Politkovskaya in the lobby of her Moscow apartment building on October 7, 2006, as well as their uncle and a former police officer. 
 
 The convictions are a victory for Russian prosecutors and the state, but rights activists and relatives of Politkovskaya say that justice will not be done until those who ordered her contract-style killing are identified and convicted. 
 
 "The murder will only be solved when the name of the person who ordered it is known," a lawyer for Politkovskaya's family, Anna Stavitskaya, was quoted as saying by RIA news agency. 
 
 She welcomed the jury's verdict but said the men found guilty "are only a few of the people who should be brought to justice", RIA reported. 
 
 A spokesman for the federal Investigative Committee, Vladimir Markin, said the authorities were doing all they can to identify and track down the person behind the killing, Russian news agencies reported. 
 
 Kremlin critics say they doubt that will ever happen because of suspicions the trail could lead too close to the government. 
 
 Politkovskaya, a reporter for Novaya Gazeta who was 48 when she was shot dead while returning home after shopping for groceries, was best known for her dogged reporting on human rights violations in the North Caucasus province of Chechnya. 
 
 Lawyers for the defendants - Rustam Makhmudov, his brothers Ibragim and Dzhabrail, their uncle Lom-Ali Gaitukayev, and former Moscow police officer Sergei Khadzhikurbanov - said they would appeal. 
 
 Investigators say Gaitukayev organised the logistics of the killing while in jail for another matter, while Khadzhikurbanov was in charge of preparing for the slaying and Ibragim and Dzhabrail Makhmudov helped track her. 
 
 Ibragim and Dzhabrail Makhmudov and Khadzhikurbanov were previously acquitted. 
 
 The five men will be sentenced by a judge at a later date and could face life in prison. Prosecutors will recommend sentences at a court session on Wednesday, RIA reported. 
 
 (Writing by Steve Gutterman; Editing by Mark Heinrich) ||||| Five guilty of killing Russian journalist Politkovskaya 
 
 Anna Politkovskaya was best known for her reports in the Novaya Gazeta newspaper 
 
 Continue reading the main story Related Stories 
 
 A court in Moscow has found five men guilty of the murder of Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya in 2006. 
 
 One man was found guilty of the shooting and the other four of organising the killing. Three of the men were brothers from Chechnya. 
 
 Ms Politkovskaya, a 48-year-old investigative reporter and vocal critic of Russia's war in Chechnya, was shot in a lift in her block of flats. 
 
 Three of the men had been acquitted of the murder in a 2009 trial. 
 
 The initial verdict was overturned by Russia's supreme court, which ordered their retrial. 
 
 One of the brothers, Rustam Makhmudov, was found guilty of pulling the trigger. His brothers were found guilty of acting as getaway drivers. 
 
 The brothers' uncle and a retired policeman were also found guilty of organising the killing. 
 
 Ms Politkovskaya's reporting for Novaya Gazeta newspaper won international renown for her dogged investigation of Russian abuses in Chechnya. 
 
 But her pieces, which were highly critical of President Vladimir Putin, then serving his second term, and the Chechen leadership, angered many in authority. 
 
 The five men, who face possible life terms, will be sentenced on Wednesday morning. 
 
 A committee set up to investigate the shooting said it was still looking for the person who ordered the operation. 
 
 Her family welcomed the verdict but also expressed disappointment that the mastermind of the killing had not yet been found. 
 
 Last year a former police officer, Dmitry Pavlyuchenkov, was sentenced to 11 years in prison for supplying the murder weapon. 
 
 Magnitsky sanctions 
 
 In a separate development, the US announced on Tuesday that it was imposing sanctions on a further 12 Russians believed to be involved in the death of a Moscow lawyer in 2009. 
 
 Sergei Magnitsky found evidence of a $230m tax-refund fraud 
 
 Sergei Magnitsky died in prison, allegedly because of torture and neglect, after accusing Russian officials of tax fraud. 
 
 Following his death, the US passed the Magnitsky Act, aimed at punishing officials involved in his death, and last year published a list of 18 individuals banned from entering the country. 
 
 Among the names added to the list on Tuesday are three doctors alleged to have withheld treatment from Magnitsky while he was in custody. 
 
 One of them, Larisa Litvinova, was chief physician at Butyrka maximum security jail where Magnitksy died while another, Dmitry Kratov, was its deputy director. 
 
 A judge involved in a posthumous prosecution of Magnitsky for tax fraud has also been added to the sanctions list. 
 
 The US says the sanctions are "independent of Russia's actions in Ukraine".