Source: Multi-News

Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams makes remarks during a press conference at the Abrams Headquarters in Atlanta, Friday, Nov. 16, 2018. Democrat Stacey Abrams says she will file a federal... (Associated Press) 
 
 Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams makes remarks during a press conference at the Abrams Headquarters in Atlanta, Friday, Nov. 16, 2018. Democrat Stacey Abrams says she will file a federal lawsuit to challenge the "gross mismanagement" of Georgia elections. Abrams made the comments in a Friday... (Associated Press) 
 
 ATLANTA (AP) — Democrat Stacey Abrams ended 10 days of post-election drama in Georgia's closely watched and even more closely contested race for governor Friday, acknowledging Republican Brian Kemp as the victor while defiantly refusing to concede to the man she blamed for "gross mismanagement" of a bitterly fought election. 
 
 The speech Abrams delivered at her campaign headquarters Friday evening marked the close of the 44-year-old attorney and former lawmaker's unsuccessful attempt to make history as America's first black woman governor. Since Election Day her campaign fought on, insisting efforts to suppress turnout had left thousands of ballots uncounted that otherwise could erode Kemp's lead and force a runoff election. 
 
 Kemp, the 55-year-old businessman who oversaw the election as Georgia's secretary of state, will keep the governor's office in GOP hands as the state's third Republican governor since Reconstruction. He responded to Abrams ending her campaign by calling for unity and praising his opponent's "passion, hard work, and commitment to public service." 
 
 The kind words came just days after Kemp's campaign spokesman derided Abrams' efforts to have contested ballots counted as a "disgrace to democracy." 
 
 Abrams made no such retreat from her criticisms of Kemp, saying she refused "to say nice things and accept my fate." Instead, she announced plans to file a federal lawsuit to challenge the way Georgia's elections are run. She accused Kemp of using the secretary of state's office to aggressively purge the rolls of inactive voters, enforce an "exact match" policy for checking voters' identities that left thousands of registrations in limbo and other measures to tile the outcome in his favor. 
 
 "Let's be clear: This is not a speech of concession," Abrams said. "Because concession means to acknowledge an action is right, true or proper. As a woman of conscience and faith, I cannot concede that." 
 
 The race grabbed the attention of the nation, with Barack Obama and Oprah Winfrey campaigning for Abrams in the final days and President Donald Trump holding a rally for Kemp. 
 
 Unofficial returns showed Kemp ahead by roughly 60,000 votes out of nearly 4 million cast on Nov. 6. Kemp declared himself governor-elect the next day and stepped down as Georgia's secretary of state, though thousands of absentee and provisional ballots remained uncounted. 
 
 Abrams, meanwhile, sent volunteers across the state in search of voters whose ballots were rejected. She filed suit in federal court to force county elections boards to count absentee ballots with incorrect birthdates. Her campaign even planned for possible litigation to challenge the election's certified outcome. 
 
 Abrams didn't take that route. She said she had concluded "the law currently allows no further viable remedy." Instead, she said she would fight to restore integrity to Georgia's election system in a new initiative called Fair Fight Georgia. 
 
 "In the coming days, we will be filing a major federal lawsuit against the state of Georgia for the gross mismanagement of this election and to protect future elections from unconstitutional actions," Abrams said, though she gave no details. 
 
 Kemp tried to move past the contentious campaign even if his opponent wasn't willing. 
 
 "The election is over and hardworking Georgians are ready to move forward," he said. "We can no longer dwell on the divisive politics of the past but must focus on Georgia's bright and promising future." 
 
 Kemp had been secretary of state since 2010. He was backed by and had embraced Trump as he tried to maintain GOP dominance in a state that hasn't elected a Democrat to the governor's mansion since 1998. 
 
 Kemp stormed to the GOP nomination with ads featuring everything from the candidate cranking a chain saw and jokingly pointing a gun toward a teen male suitor of his daughter, to Kemp's offer to "round up criminal illegals" himself in his pickup truck. He's promised a tax cut and teacher pay raises and pledged to continue Georgia's refusal to expand Medicaid insurance under President Barack Obama's 2010 health care overhaul. 
 
 Abrams' campaign sparked huge energy across the state and she became a national Democratic star. Election turnout among both sides' energized bases nearly equaled that of the 2016 presidential vote. 
 
 Aides close to Abrams said that since the election she had been wrestling with competing priorities: She wanted to advance her assertions that Georgia's elections process — which Kemp managed as secretary of state — makes it too hard for some citizens to vote. But she also recognized that a protracted legal fight would harm that cause and potentially her political future. 
 
 Kemp's victory is an important marker for Republicans ahead of the 2020 presidential election. Kemp's narrow margin already suggests that Georgia, a state Trump won by 5 percentage points in 2016, could be a genuine battleground in two years. Trump bet big on Kemp, endorsing him ahead of Kemp's Republican primary runoff and campaigning for him the weekend prior to the Nov. 6 election. Now, Trump will be able to return with an incumbent governor as he seeks a second term. 
 
 Abrams' political future is less certain. She made believers of old-guard Democrats in Georgia who didn't think a black woman could compete in a general election, and she emerged as the party's clear leader. But the party also has plenty of other ambitious politicians who will want to take advantage of the path that Abrams' has charted. The next big shot for Democrats is a 2020 Senate race, with Republican Sen. David Perdue making his first re-election attempt. 
 
 ___ 
 
 Follow Barrow on Twitter at https://twitter.com/BillBarrowAP and Brumback at https://twitter.com/katebrumback. ||||| Stacey Abrams said her speech bowing out of the gubernatorial race was not one of concession. A concession speech would have indicated she agreed with how the election was carried out and its outcome, she said. 
 
 Instead, she announced that she was bowing out of the race knowing that the interim Secretary of State was poised to certify election results declaring Republican Brian Kemp the winner. Abrams said she realized there were no more legal options to stop that from happening. 
 
 “I acknowledge that former Secretary of State Brian Kemp will be certified as the victor in the 2018 gubernatorial election, but to watch an elected official who claims to represent the people in this state baldly pin his hopes for election on the suppression of the people’s democratic right to vote has been truly appalling,” Abrams said. 
 
 “So, let’s be clear. This is not a speech of concession. Because concession means to acknowledge an action is right, true or proper. As a woman of conscience and faith, I cannot concede that. But my assessment is the law currently allows no further viable remedy.” 
 
 Abrams’ speech, her first public remarks since election night, came during a news conference called with less than two hours’ notice. In it, she recounted the challenges many voters faced with absentee ballots, as well as during early voting and on Election Day. 
 
 She thanked those who called the voter protection hotline to share their stories and for the volunteers who have joined the push to have every legal vote counted in the 10 days since the election. 
 
 “We have used this election and its aftermath to diagnose what has been broken in our process,” she said. 
 
 Putting her campaign to rest, Abrams said she would continue to speak out about how Kemp carried out the election and push for changes. She announced the creation of a new statewide organization called Fair Fight Georgia. 
 
 Abrams also said she will work to help Democrats in the Dec. 4 runoff, including Secretary of State candidate John Barrow and Lindy Miller, who is running for the Public Service Commission. 
 
 And she said she will pray for Kemp’s success. 
 
 Abrams ended her speech by casting a preemptive strike to those who may criticize her not striking a more conciliatory tone on her way out of the door. 
 
 “They can complain that I should not use this moment to recap what was done wrong or to demand a remedy,” she said. “You see as a leader, I should be stoic in my outrage and silent in my rebuke. But stoicism is a luxury, and silence is a weapon for those who would quiet the voices of the people. And I will not concede because the erosion of our democracy is not right.” ||||| John Amis/AP Photo Elections Abrams says Kemp will be next governor of Georgia, effectively conceding race 
 
 Democrat Stacey Abrams announced Friday that Brian Kemp, her Republican opponent in the Georgia gubernatorial race, would be certified as governor. 
 
 "I acknowledge that former Secretary of State Brian Kemp will be certified as the victor in the 2018 gubernatorial election," Abrams said at a press conference Friday, effectively conceding that she lost the race. 
 
 Story Continued Below 
 
 The announcement comes more than a week after the November midterm elections when Kemp came out as the top vote-getter in the race. But Abrams refused to concede, arguing that there were outstanding votes that needed to be counted. Since then her campaign has filed legal challenges and pushed to have additional absentee and provisional ballots counted. 
 
 That move lowered the margin of victory for Kemp but not by enough to trigger a runoff or recount. 
 
 But Abrams also criticized Kemp's handling of the election as secretary of state and said her speech was not a normal concession of a fair election to an opponent. But Abrams still said she was dropping out. 
 
 "My assessment is the law allows no further viable remedy," Abrams said. 
 
 Friday was the day all counties had to certify the election results. 
 
 Since the Nov. 6 election, Abrams and her campaign argued that Kemp, through negligence or indirect moves as secretary of state, worked to suppress the vote for Abrams throughout the state. Abrams officials also argued that Kemp was not doing everything in his power to count every vote. 
 
 "Make no mistake, the former secretary of state was deliberate and intentional in his actions," Abrams said. "I know that eight years of systemic disenfranchisement, disinvestment and incompetence had its desired effect on the electoral process in Georgia." 
 
 After election night, the campaign filed multiple legal challenges to ensure absentee or provisional ballots were counted even if they came late in certain cases. The campaign also sued to extend certification deadlines for parts of the state. 
 
 Abrams, in her speech, acknowledged that she could continue to fight the election results but said that would be counterproductive. 
 
 "Now, I could certainly bring a new case to keep this one contest alive, but I don't want to hold public office if I need to scheme my way into the post," Abrams said. "Because the title of governor isn't nearly as important as our shared title. Voters." 
 
 Abrams "would probably be gov if it would have been a #fairfight. But here we are, we will #keepfightinig," Abrams' campaign manager Lauren Groh-Wargo tweeted after the press conference. "Coming soon: all of this knowledge, analysis and info on what happened, collected by our staff and vols, will be poured into a major lawsuit to force reform." 
 
 Since the election, Kemp and his team have been adamant that Abrams lost. In response to every lawsuit or criticism, Kemp’s team argued that he was the decisive victor and Abrams was just grandstanding. 
 
 “Governor-elect Brian Kemp earned a clear and convincing victory on Election Day,” Kemp communications director Ryan Mahoney said in a statement on Friday. “The campaign is over and Kemp’s focus is on building a safer, stronger future for Georgia families. Radical Stacey Abrams is beyond desperate with her latest publicity stunt. Georgia voters made their decision at the ballot box. It’s time for Stacey Abrams to end her ridiculous temper tantrum and concede.” 
 
 Throughout the race, critics including former President Jimmy Carter argued that Kemp had a conflict of interest as both a secretary of state and a candidate. But Kemp only stepped down from his official role after election night as he began his transition to governor. 
 
 Abrams was one of the most high-profile Democratic statewide candidates in the 2018 cycle and quickly earned endorsements from major figures of the establishment and liberal wings of the Democratic Party. The thesis of Abrams' campaign was that Georgia had an untapped pool of Democratic voters, many of them nonwhite, that could be leveraged into a major statewide win and turn the state purple in elections to come. 
 
 The race became a rallying point for the respective grassroots wings of the Republican and Democratic parties. Abrams became a favorite of Democratic moderates and liberals while Kemp, who didn't start out in the Republican primary as the frontrunner, earned a surprise endorsement from President Donald Trump. Kemp also built his reputation as secretary of state on being a voter-fraud hardliner. Abrams, prior to running for governor, founded a group aimed at registering new voters in Georgia. The two had seemed to be on a collision course in recent years. 
 
 In the primary, Abrams was always the frontrunner and handily defeated her opponent, Stacey Evans, raising optimism that her campaign's focus on building a strong field apparatus earlier than most campaigns could work in a general election atmosphere even in a ruby-red state like Georgia. 
 
 But on election night and even as the margin of Kemp's lead shrank, he always led Abrams by thousands of votes. 
 
 Late Friday, Trump tweeted: "Congratulations to Brian Kemp on becoming the new Governor of Georgia. Stacey Abrams fought brilliantly and hard - she will have a terrific political future! Brian was unrelenting and will become a great Governor for the truly Wonderful People of Georgia!"