Source: Multi-News

. (Photo: KING) 
 
 SEATTLE -- A group of attorneys has filed a class action lawsuit against the Washington State Department of Transportation, claiming the billing process for bridge tolls violates due process. 
 
 For all the times a week she's driven across the 520 bridge, Amy Funchess never guessed how much she would end up owing WSDOT. 
 
 Before she got her Good To Go pass, Funchess says she traveled across the bridge many times but only received two tolling bills in the mail. 
 
 When she called Good To Go a couple months ago to ask about her balance, she was stunned with what she learned. 
 
 "Lo and behold, they told me about all these civil penalties I had. And I said 'How much would those be?' And they said 'Oh, you're up around $900.' And I about fell over in my chair," Funchess said. 
 
 Funchess, an attorney, consulted a friend, attorney Catherine Clark of Seattle, who had heard the same story from other lawyers. 
 
 "I honestly think it's people who aren't thinking the process through," Clark said. 
 
 So Clark and her colleagues, attorney Mary Anderson of Bellevue, and attorney Laurie Shiratori of Seattle, filed a class action lawsuit this week claiming WSDOT and Electronic Transaction Consultants are violating a driver's right to due process, by failing to notify her of her bills and the penalties owed for not paying them. 
 
 "It's sporadic. Some things get sent, some do not," said Clark. "The civil penalty do not refer to the toll bill that was issued. The toll bill doesn't include dates on which they are allegedly sent. It's very confusing for people and it should be that hard." 
 
 KING 5 has aired a series of stories exposing the confusion and the billing problems with Good To Go. 
 
 Clark accuses WSDOT of using a specific Washington Administrative Code as a crutch, which says "a toll bill MAY be sent to the registered owner of the vehicle." 
 
 But there is no requirement. 
 
 "The position that they take is a WAC that says we may send you a bill," said Clark. "Which suggests it's a discretionary idea. We don't think it's discretionary. We think it's a constitutional right that I'm entitled to notice or anyone is entitled to notice." 
 
 KING 5 reached out to WSDOT to comment on the lawsuit. A spokesperson said WSDOT had not yet been served. 
 
 The whole process makes Funchess reluctant to take the 520 bridge at all. 
 
 "Untrusting, to be quite honest, a little bit violated," she said. "They stole from me." 
 
 Funchess said Good To Go offered no appeals process, no payment plan, and that if she didn't pay up, Department of Licensing would not renew her tabs. 
 
 Read or Share this story: http://www.king5.com/story/news/2015/01/29/520-bridge-toll-class-action-lawsuit-billing-problems/22553149/ ||||| Originally published January 30, 2015 at 10:29 PM | Page modified January 31, 2015 at 7:36 PM 
 
 The steady drumbeat of 520 bridge toll horror stories has finally boiled over into a class action lawsuit, exactly as a judge predicted it would, five years ago. 
 
 Five years ago, when the state was setting up the photo-toll system on the 520 bridge, a local judge made an unusually bold prediction. 
 
 If you put both the toll fines and appeals process on that bridge under the control of the state roads agency, you will get sued by outraged citizens, the judge told state lawmakers in Olympia. And you easily could lose. 
 
 “Since the birth of our democracy, it has been well settled that government cannot take from its citizens without due process of law,” Barbara Linde, who was then chief judge of King County’s District Court system but who is now in Superior Court, scolded legislators at a 2010 hearing. 
 
 “In my view, it will only be a matter of time before an aggrieved citizen — and there will be many aggrieved citizens — brings a class-action lawsuit,” she said (italics mine). 
 
 Once again, the person nobody listens to turns out to be right. 
 
 On Thursday, three law firms filed exactly that class- action suit. It argues that the 520 bridge’s tolling fines and bureaucratic appeals process are so tilted against the people that they are unconstitutional, as well as in violation of consumer laws. 
 
 “People are being gouged by the government in ways no private business could get away with,” summed up attorney Mary Anderson. 
 
 The suit is derived from toll horror stories in the news for the past three years. They go like this: Commuter crosses bridge, has some glitch with photo-tolling account or never gets bills in the mail and — wham! — commuter is hit with eye-watering fines. There’s no place to appeal but a merciless administrative review set up by the transportation agency itself. 
 
 I have told some of these stories, and I hear new ones every week. (My email in-tray would be a rich class-action client pool.) The main grievance is that the state feels it isn’t obligated to send out toll bills. And that the fines, $40 on each missed toll, are so steep they can turn minor account snafus into multi-thousand-dollar collection actions. 
 
 Take Nicola Livic, of Redmond. He has a transponder on his car, linked to a credit card to automatically pay his tolls. But when his credit-card number was changed by the bank (due to a fraud issue), his online account stopped working. 
 
 No big deal. Except that the motor-vehicle department had his mailing address wrong (his ends with a box number, #44, that somehow got dropped.) So all the subsequent mailings alerting him to new tolls and his growing fines never reached him. 
 
 The total damage by the time he realized what was going on: $3,545. Less than $300 of that is for actual tolls. 
 
 When he appealed at the state Department of Transportation (DOT)’s University District office, he was told that ignorance of fines was a poor defense. 
 
 “It felt like a kangaroo court,” Livic says. “I’m culpable for not monitoring my Good-To-Go account as closely as I should. But the punishment is way out of whack for an address error that wasn’t mine.” 
 
 It used to be that a missed toll payment was like a parking ticket. You could go to a local court where an elected judge with significant leeway would hear you out. 
 
 But in 2010, the DOT requested that these cases be switched from the courts to an administrative process set up by the DOT. It enlisted administrative-law judges to staff the toll courts, but didn’t give them much flexibility on how they could rule. 
 
 Crucially, fines collected now go to the DOT. An average of $65,000 just in fines is assessed on the 520 bridge each day. 
 
 Judge Linde warned lawmakers back in 2010: You’re setting this up so DOT designs the system, issues the infractions and oversees the appeal process. Plus it gets the fine money. 
 
 “It will be anything but the independent process that citizens expect,” she said. 
 
 I’ve argued that fining people $40 for each $4 missed payment is a level of gouging you won’t see from the worst payday-loan shop. Better would be to charge no fines but attach unpaid toll bills to license-tab renewals, as they do in British Columbia. Tough but fair. 
 
 What happens now? The person who was right in the first place made a guess about that, too. 
 
 Judge Linde noted in 2010 that the inevitable class-action suit would be weighed by judges who tend to take a dim view of “tossing citizens into an administrative process.” There’s a big risk the state will lose, she said then. If so, it will put the taxpayers on the hook for “having to repay toll penalties, along with triple damages and attorneys’ fees.” 
 
 Or the state Legislature could act, now, and try to fix all this. They sure can’t say they weren’t warned. 
 
 Danny Westneat’s column appears Wednesday and Sunday. Reach him at 206-464-2086 or dwestneat@seattletimes.com 
 
 Four weeks for 99 cents of unlimited digital access to The Seattle Times. Try it now! ||||| . (Photo: KING) 
 
 POULSBO, Wash. -- A Poulsbo man says he is still reeling from paying his son's Good To Go bill, which amounted to more than $18,000. 
 
 Tom Rose says his son, who just got his first job, had been crossing the 520 bridge every day for work, and neglected to get a Good To Go pass. 
 
 "He thought he'd be bill later for it," said Rose. "And the way the things were going, he was living hand to mouth. He thought he was picking the lesser of two evils. He could save up and pay for them later." 
 
 Rose says his son never received a bill. He learned the total of what he owed when he tried to sell his car: more than $18,000. $1,360 in tolls, more than $16,000 in penalties. 
 
 When both father and son contacted the WSDOT's Good To Go office, they say they were told they could try to go before an administrative judge, but it probably wouldn't do them any good. 
 
 KING 5 has been hearing similar stories from other drivers. The billing has been so inconsistent with Good To Go that a group of attorneys filed a class action lawsuit this week, claiming WSDOT was violating due process. But so far, none of the cases we've heard of was worse than Tom Rose's son. 
 
 "They need to pay their tolls. We all need to do our part," Rose said. "But to not have a proper recourse, and not have the administrative process correct, is really an affront. It's almost an abuse." 
 
 We asked WSDOT to check its records. A spokesperson looked into the matter and found while they did try to send the bills out to Rose's son, the bills were returned to them. They clearly did not have a good address for the driver. 
 
 Because of that they say they are willing to work with him. Rose's son will have to pay the tolls, but they will try and find a resolution on the penalties. 
 
 "We would welcome any type of remediation in this. A second look, that would be great," said Rose. 
 
 Related: Attorneys file class action lawsuit over Good To Go billing process 
 
 Read or Share this story: http://www.king5.com/story/news/local/2015/01/30/520-bridge-good-to-go-poulsbo-18000/22623259/