Source: Multi-News

Rating is available when the video has been rented. 
 
 This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. ||||| Linkin Park Singer Commits Suicide By Hanging 
 
 Linkin Park Singer Chester Bennington Dead, Commits Suicide by Hanging 
 
 EXCLUSIVE 
 
 12:32 PM PT -- Law enforcement sources tell TMZ Bennington was home alone at the time of the suicide. We're told his family was out of town and he was found upstairs by an employee. 
 
 Linkin Park singer Chester Bennington has committed suicide ... TMZ has learned. 
 
 Law enforcement sources tell us the singer hanged himself at a private residence in Palos Verdes Estates in L.A. County. His body was discovered Thursday just before 9 AM. 
 
 Chester was married with 6 children from 2 wives. 
 
 The singer struggled with drugs and alcohol for years. He had said in the past he had considered committing suicide because he had been abused as a child by an older male. 
 
 Chester was very close with Chris Cornell, who himself committed suicide by hanging in May. Today would have been Cornell's 53rd birthday. Chester wrote an open letter to Chris on the day of Chris' suicide. 
 
 Cornell's wife, Vicky, tweeted out a message following the news of Chester's death, saying, "Just when I thought my heart couldn't break any more ... I love you T." 
 
 The band has had a string of hits over the years, including "Faint," "In the End" and "Crawling." Linkin Park crossed music genres, collaborating with Jay-Z. 
 
 The band's album, "Meteora," was one of the biggest alternative albums in music history. 
 
 Bennington was 41. 
 
 RIP ||||| Law enforcement received a call around 9 a.m. on Thursday reporting the death. 
 
 Linkin Park frontman Chester Bennington has died, Brian Elias of the Los Angeles County coroner's office confirmed to The Hollywood Reporter. He was 41. 
 
 The coroner's office said it had been on the scene at the singer's home in Palos Verdes Estates investigating a suicide. On Friday, Ed Winter, spokesman for the coroner's office, said Bennington hanged himself. An autopsy is pending. No timeframe was given for report results. 
 
 Neither the coroner nor Los Angeles County Fire Department could confirm reports the death was due to hanging. 
 
 Law enforcement received a call around 9 a.m. reporting the death, Elias said. Palos Verdes police said it was unclear if the department was going to release a statement on the matter. 
 
 Linkin Park bandmember Mike Shinoda wrote on Twitter: "Shocked and heartbroken, but it's true. An official statement will come out as soon as we have one." 
 
 Bennington, a Phoenix native, was open about his struggles with drug and alcohol addiction, which occurred at various times during his life. 
 
 The band had just released its seventh studio album, One More Light, and was set to embark on an extensive North American tour this summer and in the fall. 
 
 The group was one of the most popular rock bands to emerge in the early 2000s. Their debut album Hybrid Theory has sold more than 10 million copies in the U.S. since its release in 2000, per Nielsen SoundScan. 
 
 The band won Grammy awards in 2001 for best hard rock performance for "Crawling" and again in 2005 for best rap/sung collaboration for "Numb/Encore." 
 
 On May 26, Bennington sang Leonard Cohen's "Hallelujah" at the Los Angeles memorial service of Soundgarden rocker Chris Cornell, who had died by suicide. Days earlier, in a note posted online, Bennington wrote a tribute to his friend Cornell saying: "I can't imagine a world without you in it. I pray you find peace in the next life." 
 
 "The Cornell family is overwhelmed by the heartbreaking news about Chester Bennington which tragically comes so soon after their family's own loss," a Cornell family spokesperson told the Associated Press. "They open up their loving arms to Chester's family and share in the sorrow with all those who loved him. 
 
 Bennington is survived by his wife, Talinda Ann Bentley, and six children.