Source: Multi-News

A 91-year-old actor known for his role on the popular TV series "Boy Meets World" foiled an attempted burglary at his home in the San Fernando Valley, authorities said.William Daniels, who portrayed the teacher George Feeny on the 1990s show, was at his house with his 89-year-old wife, Bonnie Bartlett, Saturday evening when the incident began.Shortly before 9:30 p.m., the would-be intruder forced open a back door, a spokesperson for the Los Angeles Police Department confirmed Tuesday. Daniels quickly reacted, turning on lights in the house."Luckily, Mr. Daniels was able to frighten away the person and the LAPD quickly responded," the "St. Elsewhere" actor's publicist said in a statement to ABC7. "They are both well. Mr. Daniels thanks all his fans for their concern."LAPD investigators do not believe the couple was targeted.A description of the suspect was not available.Actor Will Friedle, one of Daniels' "Boy Meets World" co-stars, took to social media after learning of the incident."Don't ever mess with Mr. Feeny! #LoveYouBillAndBonnie," Friedle tweeted. ||||| CLOSE William Daniels, who played Mr. Feeny in "Boy Meets World," reportedly scared away an intruder who forced their way into his home. USA TODAY 
 
 William Daniels, who portrayed teacher Mr. Feeny on "Boy Meets World," stopped an attempted burglary at his home. (Photo: ABC) 
 
 You could never pull one over on Mr. Feeny, and a would-be burglar learned that the hard way. 
 
 William Daniels, known for his role on "Boy Meets World" as well as his voice acting as K.I.T.T. in "Knight Rider," scared off someone who attempted to break into his home on Saturday. 
 
 The 91-year-old actor was home with his 89-year-old wife Bonnie Bartlett when a person forced open a back door, according to Fox News and ABC's WJLA. Daniels acted quickly, turning on the lights in the house, which reportedly scared off the intruder. 
 
 "Luckily, Mr. Daniels was able to frighten away the person and the LAPD quickly responded," Daniels' representative confirmed in a statement. "They are both well. Mr Daniels thanks all his fans for their concern." 
 
 The Los Angeles Police Department said that "around 9:30 p.m., officers responded to an 'attempt burglary' radio call" and took a report of what happened, though they could not confirm that Daniels was the victim. 
 
 Daniels joked on "Good Morning America" about the incident. 
 
 “I struggled with an intruder, took him to the ground, I beat him up and he ran away with bruises all over him,” Daniels quipped. “Would you like to print that? You better not. It’s a total lie.” 
 
 91-year-old "Boy Meets World" star William Daniels scares off intruder at his California home. @PaulaFaris reports. https://t.co/dxQtksSar0pic.twitter.com/fchdJqa1bx — Good Morning America (@GMA) October 31, 2018 
 
 Daniels' onscreen student Will Friedle, who played Eric Matthews, recognized his former co-star's bravery on Twitter. Friedle tweeted: "Don’t ever mess with Mr. Feeny!" 
 
 Daniels played the caring school teacher Mr. Feeny throughout the show's run from 1993 to 2000. Earlier in his career, he worked as Dr. Mark Craig on "St. Elsewhere." Most recently, he appeared in "Grey's Anatomy" in 2012, and he reprised his role as Feeny for five episodes of the short-lived spinoff "Girl Meets World," which was canceled in 2017. 
 
 Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/life/people/2018/10/30/boy-meets-world-mr-feeny-william-daniels-foils-burglary/1818495002/ ||||| Tweet with a location 
 
 You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more ||||| UPDATE: William Daniels spoke to ABC after word got that the Boy Meets World actor foiled a burglary attempt on his Los Angeles home. 
 
 “We were asleep and I heard bang, bang, bang,” Daniels, on the phone with wife Bonnie Bartlett, said. “I lit the light and Bonnie screamed and this person fled.” 
 
 “Well, I think you scared him away,” Bartlett added. 
 
 “Yes, yes, I did.” 
 
 The original story continues below. 
 
 Boy Meets World actor Will Friedle knows all too well, you “don’t ever mess with Mr. Feeny.” 
 
 The actor, writing that on Twitter Tuesday, was responding to a report from ABC7 Eyewitness News about his sitcom costar, William Daniels, the actor behind Mr. George Feeny, thwarting a home robbery attempt. 
 
 A rep for Daniels, 91, confirmed to EW in a statement that he was at home with wife Bonnie Bartlett in California’s San Fernando Valley on Saturday night when a potential intruder tried to break in. 
 
 According to ABC7, the individual forced open the back door but ran off when Daniels turned on the lights. “Luckily, Mr. Daniels was able to frighten away the person and the LAPD quickly responded,” his publicist said. “They are both well. Mr Daniels thanks all his fans for their concern.” 
 
 Friedle, who played “Fee-hee-hee-hee-nay’s” pesky next-door neighbor Eric Matthews, reacted on social media shortly after the news came to light. 
 
 Related content: