Source: Multi-News

Judge T.S. Ellis has expressed skepticism about the scope of special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation. “What we don’t want in this country is . . . anyone with unfettered power,” Judge Ellis, who is to preside over the trial of former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort, told prosecutor Deputy Solicitor General Michael Dreeben May 4. “So it’s unlikely you’re going to persuade me that the special prosecutor has unlimited powers.” 
 
 Judge Ellis is right to be skeptical. Mr. Mueller’s investigation has crossed a constitutional... ||||| AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite, File Special Counsel Robert Mueller departs after a meeting on Capitol Hill in Washington. 
 
 Deep State! Witch Hunt! Swamp! NO COLLUSION! Donald Trump’s Twitter harangues against Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election have become so common that we are inured to them. Likewise, the denunciations of Mueller by Rudy Giuliani, Devin Nunes, and Sean Hannity can generally be ignored, even when they deliver them in lower-case letters. But when a noted scholar of constitutional law raises similar, though far more rational, arguments, attention must be paid. 
 
 Steven Calabresi is chairman of the board of the Federalist Society and the Clayton J. and Henry R. Barber Professor of Law at Northwestern University Pritzker School of Law—and, we should add, a friend and colleague of ours.He recently published an op-ed in The Hill, purporting to explain why President Trump has behaved lawfully by demanding a Justice Department investigation of so-called FBI spying, and why Mueller’s own investigation is “unconstitutional.” He is half right, but it is the lesser half. 
 
 Calabresi writes: 
 
 Many liberals and critics are under the mistaken belief that President Trump is violating the rule of law and civil liberties ... by ordering the Justice Department’s Inspector General to investigate whether or not the FBI spied on his 2016 presidential campaign. In fact, the president is behaving totally lawfully. 
 
 This is sleight of hand. Perhaps we missed it, but we know of no serious critic who claims that Trump lacks the legal authority to give orders to the Department of Justice. Rather, the criticism is that he has disregarded the long-standing convention of DOJ independence. A presidential order can be completely lawful in a formal sense, while still endangering “the rule of law and civil liberties.” Calabresi’s observation about Trump’s power is therefore accurate, but nonetheless a non-sequitur. 
 
 Calabresi’s second point, however, is just wrong. He argues that Mueller’s investigation is unconstitutional because he was “never nominated by the president and confirmed by the Senate.” He reaches this conclusion by claiming that Mueller is “acting like a U.S. attorney” rather than an assistant and is therefore “a principal officer” who must be nominated by the president and confirmed by the Senate. But “acting like” a principal officer has no constitutional meaning and, in any case, Calabresi’s only support for this position is that Mueller “is more powerful and famous than are any of the 96 U.S. attorneys.” The factual claim regarding power is dubious, especially in light of Mueller’s referral of the Cohen investigation to the Southern District of New York. Moreover, there is no requirement that prosecutors who conduct national investigations be less “powerful” than individual U.S. attorneys. Fame, needless to say, is constitutionally irrelevant. 
 
 Calabresi makes his point at somewhat greater length in a Wall Street Journal op-ed, in which he cites Justice Rehnquist’s majority opinion in Morrison v. Olson. That case, however, upheld the authority of a special counsel who had much broader powers than Mueller’s. Calabresi quotes Rehnquist as writing “that independent counsel Alexia Morrison qualified as an ‘inferior officer,’ not subject to the appointment process, because her office was ‘limited in jurisdiction’ to ‘certain federal officials suspected of certain serious federal crimes.’” 
 
 Mueller is different, according to Calabresi, because he “is investigating a large number of people and has already charged defendants with many different kinds of crimes.” As it happens, that is an apt description of many investigations under the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, which was upheld 8-1 by the Rehnquist Court in Morrison. It is axiomatic that a prosecutor does not need to ignore crimes that are discovered in the course of a valid investigation. And of course, Mueller’s subsequent conduct, even if it has been too expansive, would not retroactively invalidate his initial appointment. The very most that can be said, therefore, is that some of Mueller’s indictments might be vulnerable to challenge, but not that his very position violates the Constitution. 
 
 Calabresi’s reading of the Constitution’s text is strained and unprecedented. Moreover, text is not the only source of constitutional meaning. In Calabresi’s own leading work on constitutional theory, he writes that “a foundational principle of law is that to some degree what the law is on the books is determined by what it actually is in practice.” (The Unitary Executive, p. 5.) There have been special prosecutors, not confirmed by the Senate, since 1875. They have repeatedly exposed corruption in the executive branch, most notably Richard Nixon’s conspiracy to obstruct justice. The institution is part of the reason for the success of the American regime. A proposal to radically weaken it is far from “conservative.” It is just what Edmund Burke hated about the French Revolution: Calabresi proposes to tear down well-functioning traditions on the basis of an abstract and untested theory. 
 
 Finally, Calabresi asserts that “when an official uses government power in an unconstitutional way, anything that results from it is subject to the exclusionary rule and is not admissible in court,” evidently invalidating virtually all of Mueller’s work, including his referral of Cohen to the SDNY, as the “fruit of the poisonous tree.” This far exceeds any existing interpretation of the various exclusionary rules, which have been repeatedly narrowed by the Rehnquist and Roberts courts. In any event, an overly expansive investigation by Mueller would still be within the authority of the DOJ, and therefore not unconstitutional. 
 
 We are always enlightened by Steven Calabresi’s scholarly work, which we very much admire. But he is wrong about the Mueller investigation. ||||| Replying to @realDonaldTrump Which Democrats are those? Could you please list the Democrats that are conducting the "Witch Hunt", which, by the way, has caught how many witches so far? Please list the Dems, America would like to know! History will remember the damage the trumps have done to America. #Mudd ||||| Trump: 'I have the absolute right to pardon myself' 8:40 AM ET Tue, 5 June 2018 | 01:00 
 
 President Donald Trump said Monday he has "the absolute right" to pardon himself — but added that he has "done nothing wrong." 
 
 The tweet followed The New York Times' publication of a confidential letter over the weekend, in which Trump's lawyers argued to special counsel Robert Mueller that the president's broad powers mean he could not have obstructed justice. 
 
 The 20-page letter also suggested that the president even wields the constitutional ability to exercise the pardon power in matters related to the special counsel's probe of the links between the Trump campaign and Russia. 
 
 The assertion that a U.S. president holds an "absolute" power to pardon himself was endorsed on Sunday by Rudy Giuliani, the former mayor of New York and a current member of Trump's legal team. 
 
 Read more: Trump lays out two rationales for pardoning himself in the Mueller probe 
 
 In an ABC News interview, Giuliani said Trump "probably does" have the power to pardon himself, though "he has no intention" of doing so. 
 
 In word and action, Trump's latest uses of the pardon power could hold implications for how the president plans to act as the Russia probe, and the numerous lawsuits it has spawned, move forward. 
 
 Trump exercised his power to pardon last week for a sixth time, for conservative author and filmmaker Dinesh D'Souza, who was convicted of making an illegal campaign contribution. In a tweet, Trump said D'Souza "was treated very unfairly by our government!" 
 
 Later that day, Trump told reporters he was considering pardoning celebrity lifestyle guru Martha Stewart and was considering commuting the sentence of ex-Gov. Rod Blagojevich of Illinois. He said both also had been treated "unfairly." 
 
 Stewart was convicted in 2004 and sentenced to five months for a conviction related to a stock-selling scheme. Blagojevich, a Democrat, was sentenced in 2011 to 14 years in prison on corruption convictions, including trying to trade the Senate seat that became vacant when President Barack Obama went to the White House. Stewart and Blagojevich had ties to Trump's "Celebrity Apprentice" reality TV show. 
 
 But Trump's latest tweets suggest he may be considering pardons for the very people who could be offering information about him to federal investigators. 
 
 In just over a year, the special counsel has issued more than a dozen indictments, against Russians accused of working to affect the 2016 election as well as former Trump campaign officials, such as former campaign chief Paul Manafort. 
 
 Mueller's team has also secured guilty pleas from Trump's first national security advisor, Michael Flynn, and Manafort's longtime associate, Rick Gates, among others. Both men have agreed to fully cooperate with the probe. 
 
 No president has ever pardoned themselves. But a Justice Department memorandum from 1974 — shortly before the resignation of President Richard Nixon — asserted that the president did not possess such a power. 
 
 "Under the fundamental rule that no one may be a judge in his own case, the President cannot pardon himself," Mary Lawton, former acting assistant attorney general for the Office of Legal Counsel, said in the memorandum. 
 
 Mark Osler, a former federal prosecutor who runs a commutations clinic at the University of St. Thomas, said the most controversial legal question is not the pardon itself, but what comes after. 
 
 "He can issue himself a pardon warrant. There is nothing to stop him from doing so," Osler said. "The question is what happens next. It could be that it could not be challenged until a prosecutor presented a charge against him, and he relied on the pardon as a defense." 
 
 Trump attacked the legal legitimacy of the special counsel in a follow-up tweet. Mueller's team, which was appointed by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein in May 2017, is "totally UNCONSTITUTIONAL," Trump said. 
 
 The president maintained in both tweets that he has done "nothing wrong." 
 
 Numerous Trump campaign associates and other individuals have been interviewed as part of Mueller's investigation. While Trump has previously said he would like to participate in an interview, the letter argues that the special counsel must meet a high standard to prove that only the president himself could provide the information they seek. 
 
 The special counsel is also looking into whether an obstruction of justice occurred as part of the investigations into Russian meddling and possible collusion with the Trump campaign. 
 
 But Trump's lawyers contend in the letter that the commander in chief "could neither constitutionally nor legally constitute obstruction because that would amount to him obstructing himself, and that he could, if he wished, terminate the inquiry, or even exercise his power to pardon if he so desired." 
 
 A spokesman for the special counsel declined to comment on Trump's tweets. The White House did not immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment. 
 
 --CNBC's Tucker Higgins contributed to this report.