Source: Multi-News

FRANKFURT/NEW YORK (Reuters) - T-Mobile USA, which plans to merge with MetroPCS, will have to overcome technology hurdles to be able to take on bigger rivals Verizon Wireless, AT&T Inc and Sprint Nextel Corp. 
 
 Signage for a T-Mobile store is pictured in downtown Los Angeles, California in this August 31, 2011, file photo. REUTERS/Fred Prouser/Files 
 
 MetroPCS and T-Mobile USA, a Deutsche Telekom unit, said on Wednesday they hope to set themselves up as the leading provider of wireless services to cost-conscious U.S. customers by combining their assets. 
 
 But as their networks are incompatible, they will have to convince MetroPCS customers to move to T-Mobile’s network with the aim of shutting down the MetroPCS network by the end of 2015. And T-Mobile USA has to upgrade its network with high-speed services to catch up to bigger competitors, the companies said. 
 
 “This all adds up to a hugely complex and challenging migration that will take significant time and investment, and which is a major risk for derailing the benefits of the deal,” said Mike Roberts, principal analyst at research firm Informa. 
 
 MetroPCS shares, which rose 18 percent on Tuesday on reports that a deal was in the works, fell 9.8 percent to $12.24 as the reality of the challenges took hold. 
 
 Uncertainty about the deal’s implied valuation for MetroPCS also did not help. One analyst calculated the value as low as $11 per share, while another put it at $19.51. The stock has more than doubled to since mid-July. 
 
 T-Mobile USA parent Deutsche Telekom has been looking for a Plan B for the No.4 U.S. wireless network since its $39 billion attempt to sell T-Mobile USA to AT&T collapsed in late 2011 because of opposition from antitrust regulators. 
 
 Deutsche Telekom said on Wednesday that it will take a 74 percent stake in the combined company, with the deal structured as a reverse merger in which smaller MetroPCS will buy T-Mobile USA. MetroPCS will declare a 1 for 2 reverse stock split and make a cash payment of $1.5 billion to its shareholders. 
 
 The deal would allow Deutsche Telekom to maintain a presence in the U.S. market while unloading much of the financial strain of having to invest in T-Mobile USA, which has been losing customers. 
 
 The public listing will also offer the potential for the new company to raise capital on its own if needed and it will also give Deutsche Telekom a more liquid asset it could sell if it wants to exit the U.S. market. 
 
 The companies agreed on a broad framework for a deal during the summer and spent the last eight to 10 weeks putting the final agreement together, according to a source familiar with the situation, who asked not to be named due to a lack of authorization to speak to the media. 
 
 Deutsche Telekom shares closed up 0.1 percent at 1438 GMT on Wednesday, in-line with a 0.2 percent stronger German blue chip index in thin trading due to a public holiday there. 
 
 NETWORK CHALLENGES 
 
 The merger marks the long-awaited consolidation in the U.S. market, which is dominated by Verizon and AT&T. Sprint and T-Mobile USA take distant third and fourth places, and also compete with smaller companies, including MetroPCS and Leap Wireless. 
 
 Analysts say the deal, which awaits regulatory and shareholder approval, might force Sprint to put in a rival bid because it badly needs to grow its user base to continue to compete with Verizon and AT&T. Sprint has declined to comment. 
 
 Sprint, which has also been struggling to stem customer losses, tried to buy MetroPCS in February, but balked at the deal at the last minute because its board worried about the expense. 
 
 Sprint has never fully recovered from its 2005 purchase of Nextel, which was plagued by network integration problems and years of customer losses. It is finally planning to shut down Nextel’s network next year. 
 
 T-Mobile USA Chief Executive John Legere said Sprint’s problems have given him a perfect guide for what not-to-do. 
 
 “This is not a replay of a debacle that people have seen in the past. We will not smash together two networks with differing technology,” Legere, who will also head the new company, said on a call with analysts. 
 
 The deal, which requires approval from MetroPCS shareholders and regulators, is expected to close in the first half of 2013. The combined company, which will retain the T-Mobile name, will have 42.5 million subscribers. 
 
 If MetroPCS were to leave the deal, it would have to pay a $150 million break-up fee. 
 
 Legere, who took the top job at T-Mobile USA just two weeks ago, expects minimal customer losses during the network migration. If necessary, the company will offer customers financial incentives to move towards the end of 2015, he said. 
 
 While a stronger T-Mobile USA could pressure bigger providers to offer more competitive prices, Consumer Reports magazine said the elimination of MetroPCS could hurt competition for prepaid wireless services that are used by the country’s most price-sensitive customers. 
 
 Once Deutsche Telekom’s strongest growth engine, T-Mobile USA has lagged behind competitors in upgrading to high-speed wireless services and has been unable to get a deal with Apple Inc to sell its popular iPhone. 
 
 REVERSE MERGER 
 
 The new company will start with $18.6 billion in debt, of which $2.5 billion comes from MetroPCS. Analysts said that this would be a heavy load for the company. T-Mobile USA was already set to spend $4 billion on upgrading its network. 
 
 It will remain listed in New York, which analysts said would allow Deutsche Telekom to benefit from higher U.S. stock market valuations for what is effectively a T-Mobile USA spin-off. 
 
 U.S. regulators must still approve the deal, although analysts said they did not expect any major regulatory problems. 
 
 Braxton Carter, the current chief financial officer of MetroPCS, will become the CFO of the new company. 
 
 Deutsche Telekom said cost synergies from the combined company would have a net present value of $6 billion to $7 billion and, after 2017 synergies, would be worth $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion annually. 
 
 It added that it was targeting an earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) margin of 34 percent to 36 percent for the new company by 2017, compared with T-Mobile USA’s adjusted EBITDA margin of 27.7 percent in the second quarter of this year. 
 
 Morgan Stanley and Lazard were financial advisers to Deutsche Telekom. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, K&L Gates, and Wiley Rein LLP were legal counsel. 
 
 J.P. Morgan and Credit Suisse advised MetroPCS, while Evercore Partners and Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP advised the special committee of the board of directors of MetroPCS. ||||| You need to enable Javascript to play media on Bloomberg.com Play 
 
 (Corrects spelling of Chetan Sharma’s name in 20th paragraph.) 
 
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)’s plan to merge its T-Mobile USA division with MetroPCS (PCS) Communications Inc. is leaving Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) behind again. 
 
 The agreement to combine the U.S. wireless businesses into one company will give Deutsche Telekom a 74 percent stake, and MetroPCS shareholders will retain the rest, the companies announced today, following a Bloomberg News report about the talks yesterday. While Sprint Chief Executive Officer Dan Hesse has said the third-largest U.S. mobile-phone carrier will play a role in industry consolidation, Stifel Financial Corp. says a tie-up between MetroPCS and T-Mobile USA will limit Sprint’s takeover options. 
 
 Even with its 109 percent stock gain this year topping the MSCI World Telecommunication Services Index, Sprint is trading at a 58 percent discount to sales, the lowest in the group, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sprint’s best remaining option to better compete with larger rivals AT&T Inc. (T) and Verizon Wireless may be to buy Leap Wireless (LEAP) International Inc., according to Wall Street Access. While Sprint won’t be forced to immediately do a deal, it could still try to merge with T-Mobile USA or buy spectrum from Dish Network Corp. (DISH) or Verizon Wireless, said Piper Jaffray Cos. 
 
 “It certainly pushes them into a corner,” Tom Burnett, director of research and vice chairman at New York-based Wall Street Access, which specializes in mergers and event-driven research, said in a telephone interview. “You can’t be an orphan in this industry. You’ve got to try and save a place at the table, and there’s going to be some movement here.” 
 
 Bill White, a spokesman for Overland Park, Kansas-based Sprint, declined to comment on its possible next steps. 
 
 Gaining Scale 
 
 The supervisory board of Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom and Richardson, Texas-based MetroPCS’s board of directors approved the transaction, the companies said in a statement today. MetroPCS shareholders will get $1.5 billion in cash as part of the deal, and the combined entity will retain the T-Mobile name. 
 
 T-Mobile USA, the fourth-largest U.S. carrier, is seeking to stem client losses and gain scale to better compete in a market dominated by AT&T and Verizon Wireless, the joint venture between Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) and Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD) The wireless giants each had more than 105 million subscribers as of June 30, more than three times T-Mobile USA’s 33.2 million, according to data from Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. 
 
 A combination with MetroPCS will give T-Mobile USA an additional 9.3 million prepaid customers, bringing it closer to No. 3 Sprint, which had 56.4 million subscribers, Bernstein data show. 
 
 Market Reaction 
 
 Shares of MetroPCS surged 18 percent yesterday to the highest level in 14 months after Bloomberg reported on the deal talks, increasing its market value to $4.9 billion. 
 
 Sprint’s stock slumped 5.4 percent yesterday, pushing its capitalization down to $14.7 billion. Sprint’s two-day stock drop of 11 percent is now the steepest in almost a year. 
 
 The carrier is in need of its own deal to bolster its subscriber base after the $36 billion takeover of Nextel Communications Inc. in 2005 left the company with incompatible networks, a shrinking customer base and five years of net losses. 
 
 Sprint’s closing price yesterday of $4.90 is less than a quarter of its value five years ago. The company is trading at 0.42 times its revenue in the last 12 months, compared with a median price-sales multiple of 1.17 for the 47 companies in the MSCI World Telecommunication Services Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show. 
 
 Left Out 
 
 Even after Sprint boosted sales this year by offering the iPhone and began rolling out a faster network in a drive to return to profitability by 2014, CEO Hesse said in a Sept. 6 interview that the company is still “under-scaled.” He said consolidation “would be constructive” for the industry and that Sprint “will play a role in that some way.” 
 
 A tie-up between T-Mobile USA and MetroPCS “does leave them out in the cold a little bit,” Christopher King, a Baltimore-based analyst with Stifel, said in a phone interview. 
 
 The deal could put Sprint on the defensive, forcing the company to seek a deal with Leap in order to guard its position in the industry, Wall Street Access’s Burnett said. Shares of Leap rose as much as 17 percent yesterday, the biggest gain in almost four years, before finishing the day up 8.4 percent. 
 
 Leap, with 5.9 million prepaid subscribers at the end of second the quarter, is a “logical orphan” for Sprint, Burnett said in a phone interview. “Those are going to be the two guys kind of left at the dance without a chair to sit on.” 
 
 Greg Lund, a spokesman for San Diego-based Leap, declined to comment on whether the company would consider a takeover by Sprint. 
 
 Spectrum Purchases 
 
 Instead of seeking to buy a rival, Sprint could purchase radio waves, called spectrum, from companies such as Dish and Verizon Wireless to expand network coverage, said Chris Larsen, a New York-based analyst at Piper Jaffray. 
 
 Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Englewood, Colorado-based Dish, declined to comment. Robin Nicola, a spokeswoman for Verizon Wireless, said the company’s spectrum sale announced in April “is an open process and any potential buyers may participate.” 
 
 A marriage between T-Mobile USA and Sprint also can’t be ruled out as a possibility, even if T-Mobile USA goes ahead with a deal with MetroPCS, said Chetan Sharma, an independent wireless consultant who covers telecommunications from Issaquah, Washington. 
 
 “It doesn’t take T-Mobile off the table for Sprint,” he said in a phone interview. “It just increases the price tag for them if they were to acquire them further down the road.” 
 
 Deal Complications 
 
 A completed deal would it make more complicated for Sprint to attempt to buy the combined entity, Stifel’s King said. 
 
 “Even if they wanted to team up with T-Mobile and T-Mobile was an interested party, you’ve got a bigger T-Mobile now to swallow and you’re going to have to wait at least a year,” King said in a phone interview. 
 
 Instead, Sprint could try to preempt a combination by making a rival offer for MetroPCS, said Wall Street Access’s Burnett. 
 
 “Sprint might try to break up the party before it becomes a party,” Burnett said. 
 
 Zack Shafran, a money manager at Waddell & Reed Financial Inc., which oversees more than $90 billion including Sprint shares, said that even without a deal, Sprint is improving operations by rolling out its new network and working towards a return to profit, which may help the company better compete. 
 
 “The reason we’re investors in Sprint today and for the foreseeable future is the fact that they’re running the business better,” Shafran, who is based in Overland Park, Kansas, said in a phone interview. “Importantly, we think that’s their top priority.” 
 
 Failed Deals 
 
 Besides, deal talks in the telecommunications industry have a long history of not coming to fruition. 
 
 Sprint abandoned plans earlier this year to buy MetroPCS after the board rejected the transaction, which may have cost as much as $8 billion including debt, two people familiar with the plan said in February. 
 
 Sprint also held discussions with Deutsche Telekom about buying T-Mobile USA prior to the March 2011 announcement that AT&T offered to acquire the unit for $39 billion, people with knowledge of the matter said at the time. U.S. regulatory scrutiny forced AT&T to abandon its bid for T-Mobile USA in December. 
 
 A deal with MetroPCS or Leap may not be enough to make either T-Mobile USA or Sprint a competitive threat to larger rivals, Piper Jaffray’s Larsen said. 
 
 “The problems that Sprint and T-Mobile have are that they’re not as big as AT&T and Verizon,” Larsen said in a phone interview. “They don’t have the scale so therefore it’s harder to compete. Increasing your size 25 percent, it helps. But when you’re less than half as big as you’re rival, getting 25 percent bigger narrows the gap, but it doesn’t close the gap.” 
 
 To contact the reporters on this story: Brooke Sutherland in New York at bsutherland7@bloomberg.net; Scott Moritz in New York at smoritz6@bloomberg.net 
 
 To contact the editors responsible for this story: Sarah Rabil at srabil@bloomberg.net; Nick Turner at nturner7@bloomberg.net