Source: Multi-News

Hugo Correia / Reuters Justin Bieber performs in Lisbon on March 11, 2013 
 
 Thieves broke into a South African stadium early Monday, opened the safe and made off with a lot of loot — 3 million rand ($330,000) in cash. Johannesburg’s Soccer City stadium was particularly well stocked with cash after both Justin Bieber and Jon Bon Jovi played shows there over the weekend, and police believe that’s why the crooks targeted it. 
 
 “The intruders broke through the roof of the bathroom nearby and there is evidence that they gained entry by abseiling down to gain access to the strong room,” Lt. Col. Katlego Mogale, a spokesman for Gauteng police, told CNN. The crime was not discovered until Monday morning. A Soweto-based police officer, who declined to be named, told Reuters, “We don’t know how many people were involved as we are still gathering evidence.” Police are studying the stadium’s closed-circuit TV footage for clues to the crime. 
 
 (MORE: New Study: Americans Dislike Justin Bieber, Would Vote Justin Timberlake For President) 
 
 Trouble seems to have followed Bieber on his Believe tour. The 19-year old Canadian pop mega star had his pet monkey quarantined by German customs officials, caused an uproar in Amsterdam when he stopped by Anne Frank’s house, and was tackled by a fan while performing on stage in Dubai. 
 
 Soccer City is the largest stadium in Africa with a seating capacity of almost 95,000. In addition to concerts, the stadium hosted the finals of the 2010 World Cup. 
 
 MORE: Justin Bieber Hopes Anne Frank Would Have Been A ‘Belieber’ – and the Internet Explodes 
 
 MORE: Watch: Justin Bieber Attacked By Fan On Stage In Dubai ||||| Justin Bieber's world tour has generated its share of unexpected headlines, but the strangest was saved for last. A massive Ocean's 11-type heist took place during Bieber's show in Johannesburg, South Africa, according to local news reports. TMZ estimates the alleged thieves made off with roughly $330,000 in cash. 
 
 According to South Africa's Eyewitness News, the suspects used ropes and chisels to break into a safe room. Stadium officials believe the break-in was an inside job, according to another local publication, the Independent Online. FNB Stadium, the concert venue, has a capacity of 94,000 people, and any thieves would've had to get past as many as 900 security guards. 
 
 TMZ reports that Bieber tweeted at the gossip site, "It wasn't me," though any such tweet is no longer online. 
 
 The Believe singer has taken an astonishing amount of flak, some of it deserved, on his recent overseas trek. In Dubai, his security guard deflected a teenager who rushed the stage. In Sweden, police said they found drugs on Bieber's tour bus. In Amsterdam, Bieber started a firestorm with his comments in the Anne Frank House guestbook. In Los Angeles, police have been investigating Bieber for allegedly spitting on a neighbor. In London, Bieber showed up late for a show and was later hospitalized after collapsing backstage, prompting him to deny ridiculous talk he might benefit from rehab. 
 
 In the coming months, he'll be performing back in the good ol' U.S. of A., where people of all political stripes can agree one one thing: He sucks. Aww. His next show is at the Billboard Music Awards on Sunday in Las Vegas, and then his North American tour kicks off June 22 in San Diego, California, crisscrossing the continent through an August 10 gig in Atlanta. 
 
 We're gonna go out on a limb here: No way this guy organized an Ocean's 11-style heist. ||||| The seed for this crawl was a list of every host in the Wayback Machine 
 
 This crawl was run at a level 1 (URLs including their embeds, plus the URLs of all outbound links including their embeds) 
 
 The WARC files associated with this crawl are not currently available to the general public.