Source: Multi-News

DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. (AP) — Kurt Busch will miss the Daytona 500, and finds himself once again fighting for his career. 
 
 Kurt Busch, right, talks with his crew chief Tony Gibson, left, in his garage during a practice session for the Daytona 500 NASCAR Sprint Cup Series auto race at Daytona International Speedway, Wednesday,... (Associated Press) 
 
 A window outside driver Kurt Busch's garage stall shows a reference to NFL player Ray Rice written by a spectator at Daytona International Speedway in Daytona Beach, Fla., Friday, Feb. 20, 2015. In a... (Associated Press) 
 
 FILE - In this May 17, 2014 file photo, Kurt Busch, left, walks with his girlfriend, Patricia Driscoll, after arriving for the NASCAR Sprint All-Star auto race at Charlotte Motor Speedway in Concord,... (Associated Press) 
 
 Driver Kurt Busch, left, gives his girlfriend Ashley Van Metre a kiss before getting in his car during qualifying for the Daytona 500 NASCAR Sprint Cup Series auto race at Daytona International Speedway,... (Associated Press) 
 
 Busch was suspended by NASCAR indefinitely Friday after a judge said the 2004 former champion almost surely choked and beat a former girlfriend last fall and there was a "substantial likelihood" of more domestic violence from him in the future. 
 
 The suspension came two days before the season-opening Daytona 500, and Busch immediately said he'd appeal. 
 
 Although an appeal can be heard as early as Saturday, Stewart-Haas Racing has already decided to use Regan Smith in the Daytona 500. 
 
 The move to Smith by SHR, perhaps spurred by Chevrolet's decision to suspend its affiliation with Busch on Friday, is a blow to the Busch camp. 
 
 "We ask everyone's patience as this case continues in the court of law and are confident that when the truth is known Mr. Busch will be fully vindicated and back in the driver's seat," Busch attorney Rusty Hardin said in a statement, adding the assault allegation has led to "a travesty of justice" that will become clear as Busch continues to defend himself. 
 
 Busch is the first driver suspended by NASCAR for domestic violence. Chairman Brian France had maintained the series would let the process play out before ruling on Busch's eligibility — and the series came down hard in finding that he committed actions detrimental to stock car racing and broke the series' behavioral rules. 
 
 Travis Kvapil, who qualified second for Friday night's Truck Series race, was arrested and charged with assault of his wife in 2013. NASCAR took no action against Kvapil. 
 
 But it's a different time in sports since former Baltimore Ravens running back Ray Rice's own case of domestic violence forced leagues to take a harsh stance against participants accused of assault. 
 
 After the suspension was announced, on the glass outside of Busch's garage stall at Daytona, someone had scrawled in black marker "#41 Ray Rice." Busch drives the No. 41 Chevrolet. 
 
 In a 25-page opinion explaining why he issued the no-contact order this week, Family Court Commissioner David Jones of Delaware concluded that it was more likely than not that Busch abused Patricia Driscoll by "manually strangling" her and smashing her head into a wall inside his motorhome at Dover International Speedway last September. 
 
 The 36-year-old Busch has denied the alleged assault, which is the subject of a separate criminal investigation, but the judge said Driscoll's version of the incident was more credible than Busch's. 
 
 Driscoll said she was never motivated to have Busch punished by NASCAR. 
 
 "I reported a crime, just like anybody else who has been abused should do, because no one is above the law," Driscoll said. "I'm very encouraged that NASCAR is taking steps to recognize that domestic violence is a serious issue, and I hope that we see them develop a very clear policy on it." 
 
 It is Busch's third career suspension. He was suspended in 2012 by NASCAR for threatening a reporter, and parked for the final two races of the 2005 season by Roush-Fenway Racing after he was pulled over by police in Arizona. 
 
 He now races for SHR. Busch has 25 career wins but only one since 2011. It came last year, his first season with SHR, the team that helped resurrect his career. 
 
 Team co-owner Gene Haas hand-picked Busch to drive a car paid for out of pocket by Haas because the machine tool manufacturer wanted to see a driver take his company to victory lane. Busch was fired at the end of 2011 by Roger Penske for a series of on- and off-track incidents, and he spent two seasons driving for low-budget teams before Haas extended the olive branch. 
 
 Busch had been on a resurgence of sorts at SHR, which allowed him to compete in both the Indianapolis 500 and the Coca-Cola 600 on the same day last year. He finished sixth at Indianapolis last May and was named rookie of the race. 
 
 But his season began to unravel late last summer as his performance tailed off. Although he made the Chase for the Sprint Cup championship, he was eliminated after the first round. 
 
 It was the weekend of the first elimination race, at Dover, where Driscoll alleged Busch assaulted her in his motorhome. 
 
 She said she drove to the track out of concern for Busch, who sent her alarming text messages following a poor qualifying effort. She said the two argued in the bedroom section of the motorhome before he slammed her head against a wall three times. 
 
 Driscoll did not file charges until November, and the Delaware attorney general has not decided if Busch will be charged. 
 
 But Driscoll sought a no-contact order, and the couple spent four days over December and January in a Delaware court presenting their sides. At one point, he accused of her of being a trained assassin. 
 
 SHR said only that Smith, who filled in on short notice for Tony Stewart at Watkins Glen last August, would race Sunday. No plans were announced for next week's race at Atlanta, but since Haas pays for that car specifically for Busch, the team co-owner could conceivably park it if Busch does not win his appeal. ||||| DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. -- NASCAR suspended Sprint Cup driver Kurt Busch indefinitely Friday, two days before the Daytona 500, for actions detrimental to stock car racing after a judge ruled he almost surely choked and beat a former girlfriend last fall. 
 
 Earlier Friday it was ruled that Busch smashed his ex-girlfriend Patricia Driscoll's head against his motor home wall Sept. 26 at Dover International Speedway, according to the conclusions of a Kent County (Del.) family court commissioner who granted Driscoll's request for a protective order Monday. 
 
 "Given the serious nature of the findings and conclusions made by the Commissioner of the Family Court of the State of Delaware, NASCAR has indefinitely suspended driver Kurt Busch, effective immediately," NASCAR said in a statement. "He will not be allowed to race nor participate in any NASCAR activities until further notice. 
 
 Editor's Picks Oreovicz: NASCAR had no choice The report issued Friday in the Delaware Family Court case between Kurt Busch and ex-girlfriend Patricia Driscoll left NASCAR no choice but to suspend the former Sprint Cup champion. 
 
 "Kurt Busch and his Stewart-Haas Racing team are fully aware of our position and why this decision was made. We will continue to respect the process and timetable of the authorities involved." 
 
 Busch on Friday night filed paperwork for an appeal on his suspension, which will be heard at noon ET Saturday in Daytona, NASCAR spokesman David Higdon said. 
 
 "We are extremely disappointed that NASCAR has suspended Kurt Busch," Busch's attorney, Rusty Hardin, said in a statement Friday afternoon. "We assure everyone, including NASCAR, that this action against Mr. Busch will turn out to be a travesty of justice, apparent to all, as this story continues to unfold." 
 
 Hardin, who cannot represent Busch in the NASCAR appeal because the appeal process does not allow for lawyers to represent NASCAR members, reiterated his hope that the family court commissioner reconsiders his opinion based on additional evidence that would show Driscoll is not credible. 
 
 "It is important for everyone to remember that the commissioner's report has to do with a civil, family law matter and no criminal charges have been filed against Mr. Busch," Hardin said. "We ask everyone's patience as this case continues in the court of law and are confident that when the truth is known Mr. Busch will be fully vindicated and back in the driver's seat." 
 
 NASCAR has suspended Stewart-Haas driver Kurt Busch indefinitely after a judge detailed concerns about domestic violence in a ruling Friday. Chris Trotman/NASCAR/Getty Images 
 
 NASCAR appeals are heard by a three-member panel selected from a list of former drivers, racing promoters and racing executives in the NASCAR rule book. 
 
 During the appeal, NASCAR will present its evidence, Busch will make his argument and then they both are permitted opportunities for rebuttal. Both sides can bring witnesses but not legal counsel, and the panelists can summon any NASCAR member from whom they want to hear. 
 
 If Busch loses the appeal, he can make one last appeal to former Gulfstream president Bryan Moss, NASCAR's final appeals officer. NASCAR chairman Brian France also has the ability to lift the suspension at any time. 
 
 It wasn't immediately clear if Busch wins his appeal whether he could still drive for SHR, which gets a significant amount of financial support from Chevrolet. 
 
 In her statement, Driscoll said she did not consider this a "victory." 
 
 "For victims of domestic violence there are no victories," she said. "My only hope is that the pain and trauma I suffered through this process will help other victims find their voice. 
 
 "Unfortunately we live in a culture where stories like mine are often swept under the rug out of fear and with the knowledge that for every person who shows empathy many more will seek to disparage the victim. It is bad enough to endure the actual physical abuse, but the verbal attacks that follow when a victim speaks up are sometimes just as painful." 
 
 NASCAR executive vice president Steve O'Donnell did not take questions from the media during Friday's brief news conference. 
 
 "As we stated last year, NASCAR fully recognized the serious nature of the specific situation involving Kurt Busch and really the broader issue of domestic violence. Based on our review of the available details, including the court's findings that were released earlier today, NASCAR has indefinitely suspended driver Kurt Busch." NASCAR executive VP Steve O'Donnell 
 
 "As we stated last year, NASCAR fully recognized the serious nature of the specific situation involving Kurt Busch and really the broader issue of domestic violence," O'Donnell said. "Based on our review of the available details, including the court's findings that were released earlier today, NASCAR has indefinitely suspended driver Kurt Busch." 
 
 O'Donnell, who resigned his spot on the board of Driscoll's Armed Forces Foundation late last year, disputed comments from Driscoll that indicated that other women in the NASCAR industry have been abused by others in the NASCAR community. 
 
 "NASCAR has made it very clear to our entire membership and the broader industry that any actions of abuse will not be tolerated in the industry," O'Donnell said. "We want to make it clear that any inference that there is a culture or tolerance for this type of behavior is patently false." 
 
 Busch will be replaced for the Daytona 500 by 31-year-old Regan Smith, who has one win in 172 career starts and competes full time in the Nationwide Series for JR Motorsports. Smith replaced SHR driver/co-owner Tony Stewart at Watkins Glen last August, the day after Stewart's sprint car struck and killed Kevin Ward Jr. at Canandaigua Motorsports Park. 
 
 Smith will be able to practice during the 85-minute Sprint Cup practice session Saturday. Although Busch would have started 24th Sunday, Smith will have to move to the rear of the field at the start of the Daytona 500 because of the driver change. 
 
 SHR, in a news release, said that it has not determined who will drive the car beyond Daytona. 
 
 "We understand NASCAR's position regarding Kurt Busch and accept their decision," Stewart-Haas Racing executive vice president Joe Custer said in a statement. 
 
 Chevrolet was quick to suspend ties with Busch following NASCAR's announcement. 
 
 "Chevrolet has suspended its relationship with Kurt Busch indefinitely," said Jim Campbell, Chevrolet vice president of Motorsports and Performance Vehicles in a statement. "We will continue to monitor the events surrounding Mr. Busch and are prepared to take additional action if necessary." 
 
 Busch is the first driver suspended by NASCAR for domestic violence. Travis Kvapil, who qualified second for Friday night's Truck Series race, was arrested and charged with assault of his wife in 2013. NASCAR took no action against Kvapil. 
 
 A short time after the suspension was announced, on the glass outside of Busch's garage stall at Daytona, someone had scrawled in black marker "#41 Ray Rice," a reference to the former Baltimore Ravens running back whose own case of domestic violence dominated much of last year. Busch drives the No. 41 Chevrolet. 
 
 It is Busch's third career suspension. He was suspended in 2012 by NASCAR for threatening a reporter, and parked for the final two races of the 2005 season by Roush-Fenway Racing after he was pulled over by police in Arizona. 
 
 "The Court finds by a preponderance of the evidence that, on September 26, 2014, Respondent [Busch] committed an act of domestic violence against Petitioner [Driscoll] by manually strangling her by placing his left hand on her throat, while placing his right hand on her chin and face and smashing her head into the wall of his motor home," commissioner David Jones wrote in his findings and conclusions. 
 
 Regan Smith, who competes full time in the Xfinity Series for JR Motorsports, will fill in for Kurt Busch in Sunday's Daytona 500. Todd Warshaw/Getty Images 
 
 As part of his decision, Jones will require Busch "to be evaluated by a licensed mental health professional" and complete any further steps for treatment that person recommends. Jones wrote that he would not require Busch to enter into a "batterer's intervention program," because in his opinion, Busch did not profile as a habitual "power and control batterer." Jones characterized the incident of domestic violence as "likely situational in nature." 
 
 Busch claims Driscoll entered his motor home uninvited -- the couple had broken up a week earlier -- and he cupped her face with his hands while repeatedly asking her to leave. 
 
 In his opinion released Friday, Jones wrote that Driscoll's version of the events that night was more credible, citing, among other things, her demeanor when she recalled and described the events of that night. 
 
 "[Busch's] version of the events is implausible, does not make sense and is unlikely to be true given the totality of the other evidence admitted at trial," Jones wrote. 
 
 Busch has asked Jones to reconsider the ruling, and Jones has still not decided whether to reopen the case. 
 
 "We are confident that if the Commissioner agrees to hear newly available evidence that contradicts the testimony of Ms. Driscoll, he will be able understand the actions of that night as well as Ms. Driscoll's character and motivations and reconsider his judgment" Hardin said in Friday's statement. "He has already found that Ms. Driscoll lied under oath at least once. Our newly available evidence will make it clear that much more of her testimony was untruthful and was purposefully kept from the Commissioner by Ms. Driscoll's attempts to intimidate and threaten witnesses." 
 
 Busch told ESPN.com on Wednesday that he was "focused on racing" and declined further comment. 
 
 "It's a matter of just knowing that the truth has been told, and we'll see how things unfold," Busch said Feb. 12, the day before practice began at Daytona. 
 
 Both sides tried to shed doubt and attacked each other's credibility during the family court hearing, which at times took bizarre turns. 
 
 Driscoll characterized Busch, the 2004 Cup champion, as battling alcoholism and depression leading up to the alleged assault. Busch testified he was afraid of Driscoll, whom he believed was a trained assassin because of the stories and photos she had shared with him. 
 
 "The assertion that [Busch] would be chastened from assaulting [Driscoll] for fear of the possibility of physical injury is further discredited, in the Court's view, by the fact that [Busch] makes his living risking his life on an almost daily basis by aggressively driving a race car at speeds often approaching 200 miles per hour in close contact with others driving in the same manner, at the same speed," Jones wrote. 
 
 Busch opted to get his side of the story out in court over two days of Delaware family court hearings in December and two more days in January. 
 
 Busch is basing his request for reconsideration on the protective order on new evidence his attorneys claim shed more doubt on Driscoll's claims and reinforce their argument that Driscoll is a spurned lover looking to ruin the NASCAR driver's career. Included in that evidence, according to the motion for reconsideration, is Beverly Young, whom Driscoll considers her mother although they are not biologically related, stating that she did not believe Driscoll's claims. 
 
 Busch, the 2004 NASCAR champion, has 25 career wins but only one since 2011. It came last year, his first season with SHR, the team that helped resurrect his career. 
 
 Information from The Associated Press was used in this report. ||||| Kurt Busch exits Family Court in Dover on Jan. 12. A Court Commissioner on Friday said it is more likely than not that Busch committed an act of abuse in September in Dover. (Photo: DOUG CURRAN/SPECIAL TO THE NEWS JOURNAL) 
 
 A Kent County Family Court Commissioner said it is more likely than not that NASCAR's Kurt Busch committed an act of abuse last September. 
 
 Commissioner David Jones in a written opinion filed Friday wrote that evidence presented during the four-day protection order hearing was enough to convince him that Busch had used his left hand to manually strangle his ex-girlfriend, Patricia Driscoll, while placing his right hand against her chin and face, causing her head to "forcefully strike the interior wall" of Busch's motorhome. The alleged incident happened during raceweek in Busch's motorhome at Dover International Speedway. 
 
 Busch's attorneys deny Driscoll's allegations of abuse. 
 
 Jones also wrote that there could be future acts of abuse against intimate partners because of his "propensity to lose control of his behavior and act out violently in response to stressful, disappointing and/or frustrating situations involving his racing." 
 
 Jones said the incident was "likely situational in nature" where the "stressors of the situation" overwhelmed Busch's ability to "cope and control his tendency to act out violently in response to stress and frustration, causing him to 'snap' and assault" Driscoll. 
 
 Friday evening NASCAR announced it would suspend Busch indefinitely for "actions detrimental to stock car racing," according to a statement. Busch, the 2004 Sprint Cup champion, was scheduled to participate in Sunday's Daytona 500. 
 
 "Given the serious nature of the findings and conclusions made by the Commissioner of the Family Court of the State of Delaware, NASCAR has indefinitely suspended driver Kurt Busch, effective immediately. He will not be allowed to race nor participate in any NASCAR activities until further notice," the e-mailed release said. "Kurt Busch and his Stewart-Haas Racing team are fully aware of our position and why this decision was made. We will continue to respect the process and timetable of the authorities involved." 
 
 Carolyn McNeice, Driscoll's attorney, said in an email that she was very pleased with the opinion's contents. 
 
 In a statement, Driscoll said she hopes what she went through will help other women. 
 
 "For victims of domestic violence there are no 'victories.' My only hope is that the pain and trauma I suffered through this process will help other victims find their voice. Unfortunately we live in a culture where stories like mine are often swept under the rug out of fear and with the knowledge that for every person who shows empathy many more will seek to disparage the victim. It is bad enough to endure the actual physical abuse but the verbal attacks that follow when a victim speaks up are sometimes just as painful. 
 
 "Today NASCAR took an important step and deserves to be commended. The next steps are to develop a thorough process and policies that reenforce the organization's position it took today: Domestic violence will not be tolerated in NASCAR." 
 
 Busch's attorney, Rusty Hardin, said in an e-mailed statement that his team was "extremely disappointed" that NASCAR suspended the driver. He said he plans an immediate appeal and is confident that Busch will be vindicated and back in the driver's seat once the truth is known. 
 
 "We assure everyone, including NASCAR, that this action against Mr. Busch will turn out to be a travesty of justice, apparent to all, as this story continues to unfold," Hardin said in the e-mailed statement. 
 
 "We are confident that if the Commissioner agrees to hear newly available evidence that contradicts the testimony of Ms. Driscoll, he will be able understand the actions of that night as well as Ms. Driscoll's character and motivations and reconsider his judgment. He has already found that Ms. Driscoll lied under oath at least once," he added. "Our newly available evidence will make it clear that much more of her testimony was untruthful and was purposefully kept from the Commissioner by Ms. Driscoll's attempts to intimidate and threaten witnesses." 
 
 Jones's opinion comes after he issued a protection order against Busch on Monday. The civil order, good until 2016, said Busch has to stay 100 yards away from Driscoll, her home and workplace. At NASCAR races he has to maintain the maximum "practicable" distance from her and not attempt to contact her, according to the order. Driscoll is the president of the Armed Forces Foundation, which holds events at NASCAR races across the country. 
 
 Busch is also not allowed to contact Driscoll by phone, email or any other means and has to be evaluated for mental health problems related to anger control and impulse control. He also may not be allowed to purchase or possess firearms or ammunition. 
 
 Busch's attorneys filed a motion Thursday to re-open the protection order hearing. They claim that multiple witnesses have come forward since the hearing's conclusion and provided information that contradicts versions of the events, and asked Jones to delay his opinion until ruling on his motion. 
 
 In a letter to attorneys, Jones did not discount that motion and wrote he decided to publish the opinion, as scheduled, because his reasoning may offer some clarity regarding the motion to reopen. 
 
 Busch's attorneys said that Driscoll had repeatedly lied on the stand and committed perjury. In his opinion, Jones wrote that he could not find that any conflict or contradiction that constituted perjury. Discrepancies in testimony were likely the result of a misunderstanding or misremembering by Driscoll because of her emotional state, rather than intentional falsehood, Jones wrote. 
 
 Rusty Hardin, Busch's attorney, requested the Delaware Attorney General's Office to investigate separate allegations that Driscoll had tampered with witnesses. A spokesman from the Attorney General's office confirmed an email from Busch's attorneys and referred it to the Dover Police Department. 
 
 The Attorney General's office has yet to rule on the criminal charges filed against Busch last year. 
 
 In an e-mail, a spokesman said they had no comment on the court opinion or Busch's suspension. 
 
 Read or Share this story: http://delonline.us/1EyX9Ro