Source: Multi-News

A rare blue lobster caught by local lobsterman, Greg Ward, is on display at the Seacoast Science Center in Rye, N.H., on Tuesday, July 18, 2017. Ward initially thought he had snagged an albino lobster... (Associated Press) 
 
 A rare blue lobster caught by local lobsterman, Greg Ward, is on display at the Seacoast Science Center in Rye, N.H., on Tuesday, July 18, 2017. Ward initially thought he had snagged an albino lobster... (Associated Press) 
 
 PORTSMOUTH, N.H. (AP) — A New Hampshire lobsterman has joined an elite club after catching a rare blue lobster. 
 
 The Portsmouth Herald reports (http://bit.ly/2uBKn8X ) Greg Ward initially thought he had snagged an albino lobster when he examined his catch off the coast Monday where New Hampshire borders Maine. The Rye lobsterman quickly realized his hard-shell lobster was a unique blue and cream color. 
 
 The oft-cited odds of catching a blue lobster are 1 in 2 million. But no one knows for sure. 
 
 Ward says the lobster is unlike anything he's ever seen. 
 
 He gave the rare crustacean to the Seacoast Science Center in Rye to study and put on display. 
 
 Center aquarist Rob Royer says Ward's blue lobster will go on display in the "exotic" lobster tank once it acclimates to the water. 
 
 ___ 
 
 Information from: Portsmouth Herald, http://www.seacoastonline.com ||||| PORTSMOUTH — Lobstermen catch thousands of the crustaceans every year, but every now and again a gem is found among the masses. 
 
 On Monday, Rye lobsterman Greg Ward caught a hard-shelled blue and cream colored lobster around 1 p.m. near the New Hampshire-Maine border. He originally thought he caught a rare albino lobster, but said he had rarely caught blue lobsters in his 32 years of commercial lobster fishing. 
 
 “This one was not all the way white and not all the way blue," Ward said. "I’ve never seen anything like it. Usually, the stronger lobsters are usually the reddish brown color but this one still had a hard shell.” 
 
 Ward gave the lobster to Seacoast Science Center in Rye to examine and put on display. According to aquarist Rob Royer, the likelihood of a catching a blue lobster is somewhere between 1 and 3 million. He said the odds of catching an albino lobster are roughly one in a hundred million. 
 
 “Blue lobsters are still pretty uncommon," Royer said. "We’ll get about five or six calls every summer. Every time we get a call about an albino lobster, I get a little skeptical just because they are so rare.” 
 
 Royer said Ward’s lobster will eventually go on display in Seacoast Science Center’s “exotic” lobster tank as soon as it gets adjusted to the center’s tanks and water. He said it currently has another blue lobster on display, a bright orange lobster and a calico covered lobster. 
 
 Ward’s first mate Jango Troy said it was great to see a different kind of lobster. 
 
 “You see so many lobsters that are alike, day in and day out on the boat,” said Troy, a Portsmouth resident. “When you happen to see one that’s different, it really sticks out.”