Source: Multi-News

The Tea Party movement set the agenda in its first midterms, its energy propelling the Republican sweep in the House and capturing the mood of a significant chunk of the electorate, with a remarkable 4 in 10 voters in exit polls expressing support for the movement. 
 
 But in the Senate, the effect was exactly what establishment Republicans had feared: While Tea Party energy powered some victories, concerns about Tea Party extremism also cost them what could have been easy gains — most notably in Nevada, where the Senate Democratic leader, Harry Reid, survived a challenge from Sharron Angle, a Tea Party favorite. 
 
 Now, as it tries to make the transition from a protest movement to a power on Capitol Hill, the Tea Party faces the challenge of channeling the energy it brought to the election into a governing agenda when it has no clear mandate, a stated distaste for the inevitable compromises of legislating, and a wary relationship with Republican leaders in Congress. 
 
 For many voters the Tea Party has been a blank screen on which they have projected all kinds of hopes and frustrations — not always compatible or realistic. 
 
 To many in the movement, the singular goal is to stop an expanding government in its tracks, to “hold the line at all hazards,” as Jennifer Stefano, a Tea Party leader in Pennsylvania, put it. 
 
 But the movement is also animated by a belief that the entire political system has become disconnected from the practical needs and values of Americans, suggesting that its voting power stemmed as much from a populist sense of outrage in a tough economic moment as it did from ideology. What many of its adherents want as much as anything is for the two parties to come together to solve problems. 
 
 That sometimes conflicting mandate was neatly captured by two interviews in Searchlight, Nev., hometown of Mr. Reid, who became the Tea Party’s biggest target. “I want to see gridlock,” said Ronald Hanvey, who supported Ms. Angle. “I don’t want to see any more laws.” 
 
 A few months earlier on nearly the same spot, Jeff Church, arriving at a Tea Party rally against Mr. Reid, complained equally about the state’s Republican senator, John Ensign, and yearned for bipartisanship. “Why can’t they get along and make some common-sense solutions?” Mr. Church asked. 
 
 In the Senate, the Tea Party carried to victory Marco Rubio in Florida and Rand Paul in Kentucky. Still, it cost the Republicans some seats that they had once counted as solid, including one in Delaware, where Christine O’Donnell, who beat an establishment candidate in the primary thanks to strong Tea Party support, lost to Chris Coons, a Democrat once considered a long shot. 
 
 Even more painful for Republicans was the result in Nevada. Mr. Reid, once considered the most vulnerable Democrat, fought off Ms. Angle, who had made headlines for her controversial and sometimes eccentric remarks. 
 
 House races showed the same win-loss effect. 
 
 Looking ahead, the immediate focus for the movement will be on the big legislative issues facing Congress. But as attention inevitably shifts to 2012, the Tea Party will also have the chance to exert potentially substantial influence on the race for the Republican presidential nomination, with a variety of potential candidates, including Sarah Palin and Senator Jim DeMint of South Carolina, maneuvering to lead it into the next election. 
 
 For the Republican Congressional leaders, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the question is whether the passion of the Tea Party translates into an agenda that can drive legislative progress in a divided capital, or whether it becomes a prod to block Mr. Obama and his party at every turn. They want to keep the movement’s energy alive through the next presidential election — but not fall captive to it. 
 
 A year spent observing the contours of Tea Party America revealed an uneasy alliance within it, between those who came to the movement with unswerving ideology, generally libertarian, and those who say they came to it more out of frustration and a desire to feel that they were doing something to move forward when the country seemed stuck. 
 
 The much-mocked sign at a health care town hall last summer, “Keep your government hands off my Medicare,” suggested how many Tea Party supporters had come to the movement without thinking through the specifics. While the more ideological Tea Party supporters embrace ideas like phasing out Social Security and Medicare in favor of private savings accounts, most do not. 
 
 And just as Tea Party supporters do not always agree on what the agenda is, most Americans disagree with many of the goals proclaimed by Tea Party candidates. 
 
 While incoming Tea Party lawmakers like Mr. Paul have advocated sharp across-the-board cuts in federal spending, a Pew Research Center poll last week found that a plurality of Americans disapproved of a proposal to freeze all government spending except the part that goes to national security. A majority disapproved of permanently extending the Bush-era tax cuts on incomes greater than $250,000. 
 
 A New York Times/CBS News poll last month similarly found opposition to raising the retirement age or reducing Social Security or Medicare benefits for future retirees. And a plurality of voters disagreed with what is perhaps the Tea Party movement’s most widely supported goal: repealing the health care overhaul passed in March. 
 
 Even where the public agrees on parts of the Republican-Tea Party agenda, there are important qualifiers. A slight majority in the Pew poll approved of changing Social Security to allow private accounts, but only by the same margin as when President George W. Bush advanced the cause in 2005, only to see it fail when people read the fine print. 
 
 The most ardent Tea Party activists expect Republicans to hew to their desires. 
 
 Even before polls closed Tuesday, FreedomWorks, the libertarian advocacy group that has helped shape the movement from its earliest hours, put out a press release declaring, “The success of the G.O.P. will not merely benefit from the Tea Party vote, it will depend on it.” 
 
 David Adams, a Tea Party activist in Kentucky who ran Mr. Paul’s primary campaign, said, “I’m hoping for a lot of fireworks in Washington over who takes control of who. 
 
 “If Republican leaders think for a minute that they’re going to suck us in and continue business as usual,” he said, “they’re wrong.” 
 
 Like many other Tea Party supporters, Mr. Adams said the biggest goals are to balance the budget and reduce the national debt. And on those, it was unclear where he was willing to compromise. He expects lawmakers like Mr. Paul who campaigned on a promise to balance the federal budget within a year and pass a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution to put forward proposals to do so. It would not be enough, Mr. Adams said, to reach an agreement to, say, balance the budget over five years. 
 
 Mr. Adams’s list also includes changing Social Security and Medicare, cutting the military budget, replacing the income tax with a flat tax — all ideas that have been raised and voted down, firmly, before. As for repealing the health care legislation? “I can’t imagine much compromise there,” he said. 
 
 “You look at what the Tea Party has done over the course of this last year, we’ve changed the shape of the debate,” he said. “We have major candidates who are winning races by large margins by talking about making government smaller. We’re getting very, very close to put-up-or-shut-up time.” 
 
 There was not much room for compromise on Ms. Stefano’s list, either. She wants the health care bill and the estate tax to be repealed, and the Bush-era tax cuts to be made permanent. 
 
 She warned Republicans not to read too much into the Tea Party support for Republicans. “They should not see it as a mandate for their agenda,” she said. “It is a repudiation of the president and Nancy Pelosi’s view of America. As far as I’m concerned, as of Nov. 3, the Republicans are on probation.” 
 
 But as much as the Tea Party allowed the Republicans to win in enthusiasm, it will still have a relatively small caucus in the House and the Senate. With control of Congress split, Republicans will have to work with Democrats to get things done. Tea Party lawmakers who refuse to go along may find they become irrelevant — certainly not the goal of all the noise and passion of the last two years. ||||| Getty Images Members of the Tea Party Patriots attended a rally Tuesday on the west lawn of the U.S. Capitol. The group is planning a post-election summit. 
 
 BOWLING GREEN, Ky.—Tea-party leaders, cheering as some of their movement's most prominent figures won U.S. Senate seats in Kentucky and Florida, said Tuesday's elections were only the beginning of their quest to transform government. 
 
 "Things look good for tonight," said Jenny Beth Martin, national coordinator of the Tea Party Patriots, an umbrella group that says it has 2,800 local affiliates around the country. "No one in this movement is stopping today. This is not an endgame. This is just a beginning." 
 
 Tea-party victors included Republican Rand Paul, who claimed the Senate seat in Kentucky, and the GOP's Marco Rubio, who defeated former Gov. Charlie Christ and Rep. Kendrick Meek in Florida's three-way race for Senate. 
 
 Movement losers included Christine O'Donnell, the Republican Senate candidate in Delaware, whose comments about witchcraft embarrassed some in the movement, and Republican Carl Paladino, who lost his bid for governor of New York. 
 
 Early results signaled that despite some losses, the movement was on its way to becoming a major force in Washington and on the national political landscape. Ahead is a chaotic period as the movement's factions compete to set the agenda and influence the ranks of new members of Congress. 
 
 Full Results by State Senate, House, governors' and other races at the state, district and county level More interactive graphics and photos 
 
 One of the most prominent national tea-party groups, Tea Party Patriots, announced plans for a summit of newly minted officials in two weeks while Mr. Paul said he would convene his own similar gathering as soon as possible. 
 
 In an op-ed article in Wednesday's editions of The Wall Street Journal, major tea-party figure Sen. Jim DeMint (R., S.C.) called on newly elected officials to hew to the movement's priorities as they decamp to Washington. "When you are in Washington, remember what the voters back home want—less government and more freedom," wrote Mr. DeMint. "Put on your boxing gloves. The fight begins today." 
 
 Ms. Martin said Tea Party Patriots is finalizing plans for a summit and "orientation" Nov. 14 in Washington for all freshman members of Congress. Newly elected officials will meet "face to face" with 200 or more local tea-party coordinators from around the country, she said. Her group is working on a legislative agenda to present then. The focus: Balance the federal budget; and repeal "100 percent repeal" of the health-care overhaul. 
 
 Enlarge Image Close Getty Images Tea Party Patriots co-founder, Mark Meckler, is hugged by his mother, Elaine Meckler, following a rally on the west lawn of the U.S. Capitol on Election Day. 
 
 "We're going to talk to them about what we expect from them," she said, "and what they can expect from us if they don't uphold our core values." 
 
 Across the country, tea-party activists gathered in churches, living rooms, fraternal lodges and bars awaiting the results of more than a year of grass-roots organizing. Almost uniformly they said they remained wary of everyone in Washington—including their own candidates. 
 
 In LaGrange, Ga., 65 miles south of Atlanta, the local tea-party group already was organizing a post-election letter campaign to remind new officials to not cozy up to the Republican establishment. 
 
 "Come January," said Ellen Gilmore, a 69-year-old retired dental hygienist, "We'll be all over them like dew in the cotton fields." 
 
 In Kentucky, Mr. Paul, the son of libertarian icon Rep. Ron Paul (R., Texas) led his Democratic opponent, Jack Conway, 56% to 44% with 97% of Kentucky precincts reporting, according to data provided by the Associated Press. 
 
 "There is a tea-party tidal wave coming to Washington," said Mr. Paul, a 47-year-old eye surgeon, after voting Tuesday morning at an elementary school. 
 
 "Both parties let us down," he said. He added that, if elected, his first objective would be to secure a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced federal budget. 
 
 Mr. Paul said Tuesday that he won't compromise his positions regarding the deficit once in Washington and plans to organize his own meeting of victorious tea-party candidates to plan the best way to achieve the movement's agenda. 
 
 In Nevada, leaders of the Tea Party Express, which poured more than $1 million into Republican Sharron Angle's bid to unseat Democratic Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, holed up in a "war room" in a suite at the Aria casino and hotel on the Las Vegas strip. 
 
 The group endorsed Ms. Angle in April when she was polling at 5% in the Republican primary and appeared to have no shot at her party's nomination. Tea Party Express, another prominent national tea-party group, spent heavily on advertising and assigned operatives to operate a separate campaign on Ms. Angle's behalf during the primary. 
 
 The race now is the marquee battle for the organization, which also heavily backed Republican Senate candidate Joe Miller in Alaska and Ms. O'Donnell in Delaware. 
 
 In late polls during the campaign, Ms. Angle had inched ahead. But in the final days, Mr. Reid was getting aid from Democrats across the country for a huge get-out-the-vote effort to mobilize loyal supporters. "There's no question this race is iconic and symbolic of the tea party movement versus the establishment," said Tea Party Express spokesman Levi Russell. " There will be many victories tonight. We just hope this will be one of those victories. The next election cycle starts tomorrow and we'll move over to that." 
 
 —Alexandra Berzon contributed to this article. 
 
 Write to Jennifer Levitz at jennifer.levitz@wsj.com