Source: Multi-News

Gwyneth Paltrow, the actress and founder of online lifestyle brand Goop, thinks that nasty, anonymous online commenters should take a look at themselves first before they post. 
 
 “The Internet is an amazing opportunity, socially. We have this opportunity to mature and learn, which is the essence of being on earth — to being the closest person we can be to our actual, real, truest self,” she said ahead of her surprise appearance at the Code Conference today. “But the Internet also allows us the opportunity to project outward our hatred, our jealousy. It’s culturally acceptable to be an anonymous commenter. It’s culturally acceptable to say, ‘I’m just going to take all of my internal pain and externalize it anonymously.'” 
 
 Of all the celebrities out there, Paltrow receives a particularly curious reception online, and she’s well aware of it. She is beloved and obsessed-over (the success of her Goop project comes largely from people wanting to live like her, have lunch in Paris or moisturize their bodies like she would). 
 
 At the same time, there seems to be some frustration and even aggression aroused by her lanky-blonde-perfect-frittata persona. Consider a recent headline: “Gwyneth Paltrow Joins Instagram, Will Probably Do This Better Than the Rest of Us, Too.” 
 
 In February, the newly hired editor of anonymous image-sharing site Whisper promoted one of his company’s user-submitted posts that included a picture of Paltrow’s face overlaid with text alleging that she was having an affair, an image that then went viral. 
 
 “It’s taken me a long time to get to the point where I can see these things and not take it as a personal affront and a hurt. I see myself as a chalkboard or a whiteboard or a screen, and someone is just putting up their own projection on it,” she said. 
 
 “It has nothing to do with me. They have an internal object, and they’re putting it on me. I kind of look at it as, ‘Wow this is an interesting social experiment.’ You’re talking about a blind stranger having feelings about you. It can only be projection.” 
 
 The conversation about celebrity and the Internet, she said, is part of a larger one about “containment and self-regulation” online. 
 
 “Our culture is trying to wrestle with the idea that everybody has a voice, and how it’s unimportant and really important at the same time,” said Paltrow. “We’re in this very adolescent phase. It’s dangerous, [because] we lack the capacity to say, ‘Why does this matter to me, and who am I in this?’ ‘Why am I having opinions about Angelina Jolie’s operation?’ ‘What is unhealed in me?’ ‘Why am I using the Internet to do this?'” 
 
 She compared the experience of living through vitriolic Internet commenters to surviving a war. 
 
 “You come across [online comments] about yourself and about your friends, and it’s a very dehumanizing thing. It’s almost like how, in war, you go through this bloody, dehumanizing thing, and then something is defined out of it,” she said. “My hope is, as we get out of it, we’ll reach the next level of conscience.” 
 
 This year may be a tipping point for Internet trolls, she hopes: “It’s almost like we’re being given this test: Can you regulate yourself? Can you grow from this? Can you learn? You can make it as bloody as you want to, but is that the point?” 
 
 And yet, for Paltrow, the Internet can also be a source of great good. Though the Goop team won’t disclose specific details, Paltrow said her e-commerce business is profitable, and that the “open rate” (meaning subscribers that actually open Goop emails) for the Goop newsletter, which reaches people in 120 different countries, is more than double the industry average. 
 
 “I started it across all those categories kind of by accident. But it set me up really well to have a lifestyle brand,” she said. “I have big goals in mind for what I want it to be. I finally have been able to find the self-confidence that I really can do this, and I’m doing it.” 
 
 Paltrow said she was initially hesitant about speaking at the Code Conference, where she would be onstage among tech CEOs. 
 
 “At first, I thought, wow, I don’t belong in this group. But, you know, I’m really excited about my Web business and where we are with it,” she said. “I think we’re achieving a new or newish paradigm — and we’re actually achieving it — this mix of content and commerce.” 
 
 Her goal for Goop this year is to “do more of it, and do it better,” she said. So far, Paltrow has not yet taken venture capital for her site, where posts are signed “Love, gp.” Instead, she said she has used her own money, as well as “my blood, sweat and tears.” 
 
 “When I look at new companies, we’re kind of the opposite of, let’s just build it, build it quick and sell it,” said Paltrow. “Because my name is so attached to it — because it really is mine — it’s important that it be something real.” ||||| BEImages/Matt Baron 
 
 Well, this could all get a bit meta if any of you leave comments that are in any way negative on this post, but—here goes! Last night, Gwyneth Paltrow—Goop Overlord, Conscious Uncoupler—made a surprise appearance at the inaugural Code Conference in Rancho Palos Verdes, California, alongside the likes of Sergey Brin and Satya Nadella. (The conference is co-run by Vanity Fair contributing editor Kara Swisher.) 
 
 Paltrow has had great success with her weekly Goop newsletter (its “open rate”—that is, the percentage of subscribers who actually open her missives—is, according to Paltrow, “more than double the industry average”), and her e-commerce business is currently turning a profit. But while Paltrow sees the great opportunities available thanks to the Internet, and has clearly reaped the benefit of such, she told Re/code, the tech-news site hosting the conference, that she was also keenly aware of the Internet’s dark underbelly: comment threads. 
 
 “The Internet is an amazing opportunity, socially. We have this opportunity to mature and learn, which is the essence of being on Earth—to being the closest person we can be to our actual, real, truest self,” she said. “But the Internet also allows us the opportunity to project outward our hatred, our jealousy. It’s culturally acceptable to be an anonymous commenter. It’s culturally acceptable to say, ‘I’m just going to take all of my internal pain and externalize it anonymously.’” 
 
 Does this mean Gwyneth actually reads the thousands of posts written about her each week? Gwyn, are you reading this right now!??!? (If so, hi! Uh, that “Gwyneth Responds to Chris Martin Lyrics” post from last week was all in good fun! Also, want to meet up for some bruschetta and white wine? You can pick the place and time. Do you eat bruschetta?! Is bruschetta healthy?! We know you won’t answer these questions in the comments, clearly, but e-mail us, maybe?) 
 
 Paltrow went on to say that she has become somewhat immune to the onslaught of comments. 
 
 “It’s taken me a long time to get to the point where I can see these things and not take it as a personal affront and a hurt. I see myself as a chalkboard or a whiteboard or a screen, and someone is just putting up their own projection on it,” she said. “It has nothing to do with me. They have an internal object, and they’re putting it on me. I kind of look at it as, ‘Wow this is an interesting social experiment.’ You’re talking about a blind stranger having feelings about you. It can only be projection.” 
 
 The experience of reading about herself online over the years is analogous to what it’s like for veterans of war, she reportedly said. 
 
 “You come across [online comments] about yourself and about your friends, and it’s a very dehumanizing thing. It’s almost like how, in war, you go through this bloody, dehumanizing thing, and then something is defined out of it,” she said. “My hope is, as we get out of it, we’ll reach the next level of conscience.” 
 
 So, the next time you’re about to leave an anonymous, caps-lock comment on a Kim Kardashian photo post, imagine a mini-Gwyneth on your shoulder, drinking a mini-kale smoothie, shaking her head. We’ll all be on that next level of conscience in no time. ||||| Gwyneth Paltrow isn't who you'd expect to speak at a big tech conference featuring Microsoft and Google honchos. But on Tuesday, she gave a short and impassioned speech about the dark side of the Internet. 
 
 The actress was the surprise guest at Re/Code's Code Conference outside of Los Angeles. She spoke about the anonymity of the Internet — and its ability to allow "objectification and dehumanization" of others, especially celebrities. 
 
 "It's like the scabs from your high-school wounds being ripped off on a daily basis," Paltrow said. 
 
 Actress Gwyneth Paltrow was a surprise speaker at the Code Conference on Tuesday. Asa Mathat / Re/code 
 
 A visibly nervous Paltrow started off self-deprecating — she promised that she wouldn't talk about Javascript or Ruby On Rails — but she relaxed as she went on about the effect Internet trolls have had on her life and those of her celebrity friends. 
 
 Paltrow acknowledged that some abuse goes along with being a public figure: "When you go back through history, it's always happened. From a spiritual leader to Katharine Hepburn ..." 
 
 But the nature of the Internet adds a disturbing layer, she said. Paltrow gave one chilling example: A celebrity friend who posted a "normal photo" on Instagram received a comment from a user who expressed a desire to "rape and disembowel" her. 
 
 Paltrow, who specifically slammed Facebook for its "foundation of objectification," didn't go into many details about the online abuse she herself has taken. 
 
 But in February, a user of the anonymous secrets-sharing app Whisper posted a message alleging that Paltrow was cheating on husband Chris Martin — a claim that her rep quickly denied. The following month, Paltrow earned Internet scorn for calling her separation from Martin a "conscious uncoupling." 
 
 "At a certain point when you've been made fun of and excoriated and dragged through the mud ... for 20 years ... you realize it's not really about you," Paltrow said. 
 
 Instead, Paltrow said, she has accepted she "cannot be more than an external representation" of whatever hurts the trolls keep inside themselves. 
 
 Paltrow said she thinks about how her children will grow up in an online world, and wonders: "Perhaps the Internet has been brought to us as a test of our own emotional evolution." 
 
 Paltrow hopes that evolution will bring changes to the Internet and the way we live online. 
 
 "It's no accident that as the Internet grows, and the voices get softer and softer because there are so many of them ... we're drawn to authenticity."