Source: Multi-News

It is getting hard to count how many times Miley Cyrus has stripped down for photo shoots — but the 22-year-old’s latest spread is her most provocative yet. 
 
 Cyrus covers this month’s issue of Candy magazine, the first magazine “completely dedicated to celebrating tranvestism, transexuality, crossdressing and androgyny in all their glory.” 
 
 In a series of photos taken by renowned celebrity photographer (and alleged sex predator) Terry Richardson, Cyrus playfully fellates a nightstick while donning a policeman’s cap, stretches out her tongue to lick her armpit hair and bends at the waist to reach for a sex toy. 
 
 “Miley has what it takes,” the caption on each shot reads. 
 
 Check out the complete unblurred photo shoot here (Warning: Photos are extremely NSFW). 
 
 This isn’t the first time Cyrus has gotten naked for Richardson; the controversial photographer shot a younger Cyrus in his New York studio in 2013. The pair also worked together on Cyrus’ “Wrecking Ball” music video. 
 
 Richardson, who’s worked with countless celebrities on sexy photo shoots, has become something of an outcast in the photography world in recent years. Last year, a model named Emma Appleton accused the photographer of soliciting sex from her in exchange for securing her a Vogue photo shoot. In December 2013, Richardson’s ex-girlfriend, Audrey Gelman, said that both she and Lena Dunham, who had been photographed by Richardson, “have regrets.” 
 
 Last year, Vogue told Us Weekly it had “no plans to work with” its controversial former contributor in the future. ||||| “Beautiful, gross, strong, thin, fat, pretty, ugly, sexy, disgusting, flawless, woman.” 
 
 That’s how Amy Schumer described her nude photo by Annie Leibovitz for the new Pirelli Calendar, seizing the words from the tweets and thinkpieces by her critics and cheerleaders, all of whom will reliably bicker over the headline-making photo shoot from the star, who has turned the unapologetic, self-deprecating embracing of her body image into a zeitgeist-seizing art form. 
 
 In the photo, Schumer is nude with nothing but a pair of underwear and some heels on, her arms opting to conceal her nipples instead of the rolls on her stomach as she slouches, and holding a coffee cup as the flash of a bulb startles her face startles into a candid, quite beautiful pose. 
 
 The Trainwreck and Inside Amy Schumer star is a model for photographer Annie Leibovitz’s “quite different” 43rd edition of the Pirelli Calendar, typically known for classic pin-up poses from the world’s most glamorous and flawless sex symbols—Naomi Campbell, Penelope Cruz, Kate Moss, Cindy Crawford—but which this year features some of the world’s most distinguished women, all noted for things other than, but also including, their looks. 
 
 “The goal was to be very straightforward,” Leibovitz said in a press conference unveiling the images. “I wanted the pictures to show the women exactly as they are, with no pretense.” 
 
 In addition to Schumer, other models for the calendar include names not classically associated with the phrase “pin-up”—Selma director Ava DuVernay; Yao Chen, the first Chinese goodwill ambassador for United Nations High Commission for Refugees; tennis phenom Serena Williams—and therefore reappropriates the phrase to encompass new layers of sexiness and beauty: the kind that triumphs confidence, intelligence, class, and strength as part of the idea of exhibitionism. 
 
 The remainder of the calendar’s models include Lucasfilm producer Kathleen Kennedy, Yoko Ono, writer Fran Lebowitz, executive Mellody Hobson, former supermodel Natalia Vodianova, philanthropist Agnes Gund, blogger Tavi Gevinson, and Iranian artist Shirin Neshat. 
 
 As for her own image, which bucks the celebrity tradition of airbrushing out curves and rolls, Schumer says, “I never felt more beautiful.” 
 
 The more radical message she's sending: We’re all our fiercest champions, but we're also our biggest critics. That tension? That is natural. That is beautiful. 
 
 It’s easy to sound trite or maybe even patronizing when praising a famous person for embracing their body, and for being candid about all the insecurities they still acknowledge. But to deny the power not just in Schumer’s involvement in this calendar but also in the way she has shared the photo would be an injustice to the effect it will undeniably have. 
 
 “Beautiful, gross, strong, thin, fat, pretty, ugly, sexy, disgusting, flawless, woman,” she captioned the photo when she posted it on Twitter and on Instagram Monday morning. 
 
 These are words that seem in contradiction with each other, almost like an insufferable beat poet who thinks she is being deeper than she is. But they’re not. Schumer is redirecting the body-positive movement in a more realistic, and maybe even emotionally healthier way. 
 
 Get The Beast In Your Inbox! Daily Digest Start and finish your day with the top stories from The Daily Beast. Cheat Sheet A speedy, smart summary of all the news you need to know (and nothing you don't). By clicking “Subscribe,” you agree to have read the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy Subscribe Thank You! You are now subscribed to the Daily Digest and Cheat Sheet. We will not share your email with anyone for any reason. 
 
 You can feel confident and proud of your body. You can find your curves sexy. You can embrace what some might call an imperfection. And you can also hate your body sometimes, too. 
 
 Because to have a relationship with your body and your self-confidence means being honest about insecurities and your feelings about them. Otherwise you’re just projecting a false pride, convincing yourself that you’ve accepted parts of your body that you don’t like merely because a body-positive movement says you will be happier if you do. 
 
 Schumer has always been candid about her body image, partly because she recognizes the radical power of being a successful and sexual woman in Hollywood while not having the body type of a waifish clothing rack with cartoon boobs. With great power comes great responsibility, and if not necessarily considering it a responsibility to discuss her body image struggles (because, dear God, how awful), she considers it an opportunity, and one that she’s relished. 
 
 But she’s also been candid because we’ve forced her to. How many interviews has Schumer sat through, forced to answer questions about being a “trailblazer” because she’s carved a place for herself in show business without being a size zero? 
 
 The brilliant comedian that she is, she’s used it as part of her comedy, especially in an often repeated bit about how in L.A. her arms register as legs. (It’s a good bit, even if we’ve heard her perform it so often by this point we could recite it ourselves.) 
 
 The eloquent human that she is—the one who has been so incomparably gifted at channeling our own frustrations and complicated feelings with a razor-sharp wit laced with surprising shocks of emotion—she’s also used this candor to be more authentic than most celebrities have ever been about what it’s been like to be insecure with your body while under the scrutinizing gaze of the public eye. And then eventually conquer that. 
 
 “Some nights I just didn’t even want to go on stage because I couldn’t find an outfit I looked good in,” she said on the Today show last month. Then, tearfully, “It’s been a struggle for me my whole life, especially just being in the entertainment industry, standing on a stage in front of people. I can’t perform my best or be confident if I’m not sure if I’m pulling at something. Sometimes I would just want to throw in the towel and say, ‘I’m not going to do stand-up tonight.’” 
 
 We don’t often let our strong role models to have chink in their armor, especially ones that betray any sort of emotion or vulnerability. Amy Schumer, role model for all confident women, called bullshit on that, and we’re all better for it. 
 
 So it’s with a careful honed grace, sharpened from so much of that, that Schumer shares the photo with the perfect message, a collection of words that some will use to describe how she looks, that she will use to describe her looks as her relationship to the photo and her body evolves (like all of us do with our own), and that actually mean something real—more real than any rote “This is beautiful!” plastic endorsement. 
 
 Perhaps unintentionally, there’s a bit of cheeky poeticism to this photo being included as part of the Pirelli Calendar, which is routinely associated with “pin-up” poses. 
 
 In an episode of Inside Amy Schumer that spoofed 12 Angry Men, jurors did not debate whether the defendant (played by Schumer) was guilty of committing murder, but instead the crime of not being hot enough to be on TV. At one point, one of the jurors bemoans the end of the days where only women as sexy and perfect as Marilyn Monroe—the iconic pin-up girl—were allowed on TV. 
 
 Monroe was a size 8, another juror points out. Schumer is a size 6. 
 
 A beautiful, gross, strong, thin, fat, pretty, ugly, sexy, disgusting, flawless size 6. ||||| Annie Leibovitz opts for natural and effortless style in portraits of Serena Williams, Yoko Ono, Amy Schumer and others 
 
 Pirelli calendar goes with less steam and more jokes for 2016 
 
 The annual calendar produced by Pirelli tyres – which traditionally centres on the artfully lit nude bodies of female supermodels – has been unveiled, presenting a dramatic shift in subject matter and aesthetic. 
 
 Gone are the gym-toned limbs and heaving bosoms; in their place for the 2016 calendar, shot by Annie Leibovitz, are simple portraits of women of various sizes, ages and ethnicities chosen for their “professional, social, cultural, sporting and artistic accomplishment”. 
 
 Quick guide A brief history of the Pirelli calendar Show Hide What is it? The Pirelli calendar was first published in 1963 as a corporate gift for clients and customers of the Italian tyre company. The annual publication of the calendar – which has traditionally featured conventionally sexy images of nude women – has become an unlikely fixture on the fashion calendar because it attracts big-name photographers, models and celebrities. Its blatant objectification of naked women has been controversial and at times obtuse, but the calendar has survived by becoming more diverse and inclusive in its approach and its subject matter. Who has shot for it? ​The original photographer was Terence Donovan, who was tasked with producing an arty, tasteful reimagining of the traditional car mechanics' workshop pin-up calendar. ​He returned in 1987. Other notable names include Brian Duffy (1965), Sarah Moon (1972), Norman Parkinson (1985), Bert Stern (1986), Richard Avedon (1995, 1997), Peter Lindbergh (1996, 2002, 2014, 2017), Annie Leibowitz (2000, 2016), Mario Testino (2001), Terry Richardson (2010), Steve McCurry (2013), Helmut Newton (2014), Steven Meisel (2015) and Tim Walker (2018). What about the models? The models have often taken second billing to the photographers, although there have been plenty of big names. Naomi Campbell featured in 1987, and the calendar tapped into the cult of the supermodel from 1994 when Herb Ritts shot Helena Christensen, Cindy Crawford, Karen Alexander and Kate Moss. Steven Meisel's 2015 edition was a who's who of the biggest names in modelling including Gigi Hadid, Karen Elson and Joan Smalls. 
 
 How has the calendar moved with the times? In 2007, Inez van Lamsweerde and Vinoodh Matadin took inspiration from Hollywood by featuring Penélope Cruz, Lou Doillon, Hilary Swank, Naomi Watts and a 71 year-old Sophia Loren. Peter Beard's 2009 calendar highlighted social activism. It was shot in Rio de Janeiro, using a mix of models and city residents – all clothed – who had started their own charities. Annie Leibowitz's 2016 calendar featured women who have achieved something significant in their fields, including Yoko Ono, Patti Smith, Serena Williams and Amy Schumer. Tim Walker's Alice in Wonderland calendar for 2018, styled by Vogue editor Edward Enninful, was the first to star an all-black cast, including Whoopi Goldberg, Puff Daddy, Naomi Campbell and RuPaul. 
 
 Subjects include Yoko Ono, wearing a top hat, tuxedo jacket and fishnet tights; and Patti Smith, modelling jeans, boots and a snarl. The cultural commentator Fran Lebowitz makes an unlikely Miss May, smoking a cigarette in a man’s oversized pinstriped jacket. The blogger Tavi Gevinson, Chinese actor Yao Chen, artist Shirin Neshat, investment banker Mellody Hobson, the director of the film Selma, Ava DuVernay, and Agnes Gund, an art collector, also appear. 
 
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest Serena Williams in the 2016 calendar. Photograph: Annie Leibovitz/Pirelli 
 
 The tennis star Serena Williams was one of just two scantily clad stars, posing in a balletic lunge with her muscular, naked back to the camera. December’s subject, the comedian Amy Schumer, sips from a lipstick-stained takeaway coffee cup in her underwear, with soft rolls of flesh visible on her stomach. 
 
 At the launch of the calendar on Monday, Leibovitz explained that none of these photographs had been conceived with the male gaze in mind. Williams’s photo was “not a nude but a body study”, she said, while Schumer’s was a comic conceit: “The idea was that she was the only one who had not got the memo about wearing clothes.” 
 
 To the uninitiated, the Pirelli calendar might sound like a tatty document destined for mechanics to stare at in a garage. But during its 50-odd years of production, Pirelli has worked hard to cultivate a sense of artiness and exclusivity around the images. In its hard copy form the calendar is only sent out to a select and secret few, although the images circulate widely on the internet. 
 
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest Annie Leibovitz attends the Pirelli calendar launch in London. Photograph: Andy Rain/EPA 
 
 They are given a veneer of respectability, and fashion industry approval, thanks to the inclusion of the world’s top supermodels and actors – Kate Moss, Gisele Bundchen and Julianne Moore to name a few – who are photographed by illustrious names including Herb Ritts, Richard Avedon and Helmut Newton. 
 
 Monday’s slick launch event, in the grand ballroom of the Grosvenor House on Park Lane, London, underlined the seriousness with which Pirelli takes the calendar as a marketing exercise. The world’s media gathered for the unveiling of the images, listening as Clare Balding interviewed Leibovitz and three of the calendar’s subjects – Gevinson, Gund and Chen – on stage, while the proceedings were translated via headsets into four languages. 
 
 The women spoke warmly of the calendar’s symbolism, with Leibovitz describing it as representative of a shift in the way women are viewed. The tyre manufacturer’s chief executive, Marco Tronchetti Provera, said the company had been looking to make a departure from the usual format of its calendar this year, one that felt “very timely”. 
 
 “Women who have done something outstanding in their lives, from every corner of the world. This represents what Pirelli thinks is beautiful,” said Tronchetti Provera. 
 
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest Yao Chen, the Chinese actor, in the calendar. Photograph: Annie Leibovitz/Pirelli 
 
 Leibovitz added that the images were designed to look as natural and effortless as possible, with little “pretence” to the pictures. Though shot in flattering black and white, they had been subject to just a “little cleaning up” of the images rather than the usual heavy post-production work, she said. 
 
 Though Leibovitz, who also photographed a calendar of nudes for Pirelli in 2000, declined to describe the calendar as a feminist watershed moment for the brand, she said: “Pirelli has always given free rein to the photographer, so it’s really about choice of photographer. I think the company has wanted to shift for a few years and my mandate was that they wanted to see some change.” 
 
 During a behind-the-scenes film shown at the launch, the photographer’s almost-namesake Lebowitz offered a slightly different analysis: “Perhaps clothed women are going to have a moment.” ||||| Annie Leibovitz/Pirelli 
 
 For more than half a century, Italian tire-maker Pirelli has released an annual calendar full of photos of supermodels in pin-up poses wearing skimpy lingerie or nothing at all. This year’s iteration marks a drastic departure from the form: The calendar’s models are luminaries of art, business, sports, and philanthropy, photographed by Annie Leibovitz. 
 
 Christina Cauterucci Christina Cauterucci is a Slate staff writer. 
 
 
 
 In fact, the only two women who appear in partial nudity are Amy Schumer and Serena Williams, who’ve each been targeted by body-shamers over the past year. Their gorgeous images do more to turn that shame around on their trolls than any Instagram comment war ever could. 
 
 Advertisement 
 
 
 
 Yoko Ono, Ava DuVernay, Iranian artist Shirin Neshat, Patti Smith, author Fran Lebowitz, actress Yao Chen, and Tavi Gevinson show up in the calendar, too. “I wanted the pictures to show the women exactly as they are, with no pretense,” Leibovitz told Vogue of the studio portraits. The calendar isn’t for sale; as in past years, it’ll be gifted to 20,000 “VIPs, musicians, politicians, and royalty.” 
 
 The nudity of Williams and Schumer stands in stark contrast to Pirelli’s usual M.O. Previous decades have seen the world’s top professional beauties showcasing individual exposed, oiled-up body parts—with their faces, at times, cropped out—in what amounted to a fancified soft-core porn magazine. Last year’s featured women, which included lingerie models Adriana Lima, Joan Smalls, and Gigi Hadid, were shot swaddled in latex straddling bike seats and bathing in bubbles. Flip through the past 50 years of calendars and you’ll find just a few years of clothed women in editorial-type shoots. Taken as a whole, the archive testifies to the longtime persistence of one particular beauty ideal in fashion and mainstream media, one that can rarely accommodate a roll of fat, bulge of muscle, or pinch of age-spotted skin. 
 
 Annie Leibovitz/Pirelli 
 
 Now, Pirelli seems to realize, the world has gotten bored of this tired tradition. “A white, able-bodied cis-gendered woman being naked is just not revolutionary anymore,” Gevinson told the New York Times. “I don’t think anyone is going to be like, ‘Damn, I wanted those naked chicks.’ ” The calendar’s two naked chicks, Williams and Schumer, are the perfect step away from Pirelli’s nudity of yore. 
 
 In any state of dress or undress, Schumer and Williams have been scrutinized for their looks, and both have resisted pressure to retreat into more modest clothing or a different strength-training regimen. Schumer has parodied her trolls’ ridiculous fixation on her looks and doubled down on her overtly sexual image. Williams, whose “large biceps” and “mold-breaking muscular frame” have been pondered over nearly as much as her athletic prowess, has batted down claims that her body shape makes her less feminine. (“First of all she’s a woman, and she wants to be a woman,” coach Tomasz Wiktorowski has said of his strategy to keep tennis player Agnieszka Radwanska small and lean.) In a Good Morning America interview, Williams praised her own body’s athletic form. “I love that I am a full woman and I’m strong and I’m powerful and I’m beautiful at the same time,” she said.