Source: Multi-News

WASHINGTON — President Trump, by demanding on Friday that European allies agree to rewrite the Iran nuclear deal within 120 days or he will kill it, set himself a diplomatic challenge that would be formidable even for an administration with a deep bench of experienced negotiators. 
 
 For Mr. Trump, who has filled his national security ranks with retired military officers and allowed his State Department to languish, the challenge is even more profound. And it is not limited to Iran: The North Korea crisis has taken a sudden turn toward diplomacy, with the unexpected opening of talks between the North and the South. 
 
 On both fronts, current and former officials say, the Trump administration is being forced to rethink strategies that had been driven largely by military considerations. Many say the White House is ill equipped to deal with the prospect of a South Korean détente with the North’s Kim Jong-un or the recent eruption of political unrest in Iran. 
 
 The antigovernment protests in Iran have complicated Mr. Trump’s calculations about whether to rip up the nuclear deal negotiated by the Obama administration, several officials said. While the unrest has made the president even more determined to punish the Iranian leadership, it has also reinforced the conviction of European leaders that the deal should be preserved. ||||| President Donald Trump is designating 14 Iranian individuals and entities with new sanctions unrelated to the nuclear deal, including the head of Iran’s judiciary. | Nicholas Kamm/AFP/Getty Images Trump extends Iran nuclear deal again 
 
 President Donald Trump is once again extending the Iran nuclear deal, but Trump will "terminate” the agreement unless Congress and European allies agree to strengthen it, Trump said in a statement Friday. 
 
 "This is a last chance," Trump said. "[E]ither fix the deal’s disastrous flaws, or the United States will withdraw." 
 
 Story Continued Below 
 
 The decision is a temporary victory for Trump's national security team, which has spent months trying to persuade a president who despises the nuclear deal that abandoning it would be a self-inflicted foreign policy calamity. 
 
 The statement implicitly sets a mid-May deadline for the deal's fate. That is when Trump must again choose, as he did Friday, whether to waive economic sanctions on Tehran which come up for renewal every 120 days. 
 
 The Obama administration suspended those sanctions were suspended in July of 2015 as part of the agreement negotiated with Iran and five other nations that imposed limits on Iran's nuclear program, which experts said had neared nuclear weapons capability. 
 
 Facing a separate deadline that appears every 90 days, Trump declined — as he first did in mid-October — to certify that Iran is complying with the nuclear deal, despite the conclusion of international inspectors to the contrary. 
 
 Though relieved by its temporary extension, the nuclear deal's supporters remain nervous about its prospects. Trump's decision "keeps the deal on life-support for now but puts it on a path toward collapse," said Philip Gordon, a former Obama national security official who advised Obama on the negotiations. 
 
 Trump is also targeting 14 Iranian individuals and entities with new sanctions unrelated to the nuclear deal. They include an elite Iranian military cyber unit and the head of Iran’s judiciary, Sadeq Larijani, whose brother is the speaker of Iran's parliament. Larijani was named in response to Iran's harsh repression of recent nationwide protests, and show that the sanctions "go to the top of the regime" and the the U.S. "is not going to tolerate the continued violation of the rights of their citizens," as one official put it. 
 
 The most reliable politics newsletter. Sign up for POLITICO Playbook and get the latest news, every morning — in your inbox. Email Sign Up By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time. 
 
 Some hawkish administration officials and advisers had hoped that the popular protests in Iran, which erupted last month but have largely quieted after a regime crackdown, might prompt Trump to pull the plug on the nuclear agreement. But that was not the counsel of his top national security officials, including Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, Defense Secretary James Mattis and national security adviser H.R. McMaster. 
 
 While they are not fans of the nuclear agreement — joined by France, Germany, Great Britain, China and Russia — those officials believe the costs of a unilateral withdrawal by the U.S. that is opposed by its allies is too high and outweighs what many experts consider the unrealistic prospects of negotiating a stricter deal. 
 
 The spotlight now turns to Congress, which Trump insists must pass legislation imposing new restrictions on Iran, as well as to the European parties to the deal, whose support Trump is demanding. 
 
 "No one should doubt my word," Trump said in his statement. "I hereby call on key European countries to join with the United States in fixing significant flaws in the deal, countering Iranian aggression, and supporting the Iranian people. If other nations fail to act during this time, I will terminate our deal with Iran." 
 
 Trump's statement set out specific criteria for Congress, including a provision requiring "immediate" access to Iranian facilities by international inspectors; and an explicit declaration that the U.S. sees Iran's long-range ballistic missile program and its nuclear program as "inseparable." 
 
 Trump also insisted upon a undefined guarantee "that Iran never even comes close to possessing a nuclear weapon." But a senior administration official told reporters that means that Iran "remains above a one-year breakout timeline," which is what the deal currently mandates. 
 
 Trump also said that any new Congressional provisions must have no expiration date. Most key provisions of the nuclear deal sunset in the next decade, which critics say will allow Iran to quickly resume its progress toward a nuclear weapon. 
 
 McMaster has been negotiating potential new legislation with Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) and Ben Cardin (D-Md.), but with nothing to show in public so far. European leaders have also been generally dismissive about imposing new nuclear-relation demands on Iran, saying the agreement cannot be renegotiated. Tehran insists that any efforts to impose new conditions on its nuclear programs amount to an abrogation of the deal and has threatened to resume its nuclear program at peak capacity in response. 
 
 Cardin said on Friday that he and Corker have underscored to the administration “that we want to be helpful“ but added that Trump’s point-blank series of demands may have made their job harder. 
 
 The provisions that Trump insisted on “would require discussions with our European allies and with Congress,” Cardin told POLITICO. “It would be more helpful if he laid it out in a framework rather than the manner in which he has in his statement.” 
 
 Corker and Cardin have both signaled openness to attaching any Iran measure they can agree on to a must-pass legislative vehicle, a strategy that would avoid the political minefields of a stand-alone debate on the nuclear pact. Congress is likely to consider a new spending package as soon as next month and may also take up legislation raise the debt limit in March. 
 
 But the senators’ talks remain in early stages, and any bill they produce will likely face resistance from Democrats who don't believe the deal should be tampered with as well as Republicans who want even tougher action. 
 
 Gordon expressed skepticism that a legislative fix or transatlantic offering can salvage the deal. 
 
 "Europeans and Congressional Democrats may look for ways to give Trump something to keep him from implementing his threat to kill the deal in four months, but cosmetic changes may not be enough," Gordon said. "And even if they do go along with unilateral changes in the administration’s stance, it’s hard to see how Iran fails to respond with unilateral steps of its own. 
 
 James Jeffrey, a former deputy national security adviser in the George W. Bush White House now with the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, called such assessments too dire. Jeffrey said that Trump's demands can be met without violating the nuclear deal. 
 
 “Trump is leaving the door open to staying in the agreement if France, Germany and the UK work with Washington,” Jeffrey said. 
 
 In a statement, the ranking Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Eliot Engel (D-NY), was skeptical about prospects for a legislative fix. 
 
 “[W]e need to put to rest the canard that Congress can somehow unilaterally change the deal," Engel said. "Any legislation that affects America’s adherence to the deal would make us the country walking away from our commitments. Like it or not, we need to uphold our end of the bargain so that we can hold Iran to its obligations and crack down on the regime’s other destabilizing activities.” 
 
 Diplomacy Works — a group of former Obama national security officials including former Secretary of State John Kerry and his former chief Iran negotiator, Wendy Sherman — denounced Trump's decision in a statement Friday. 
 
 "Today we learned that the President’s plan includes bullying our allies into fundamentally altering the terms of a deal that they know is working for our mutual security and have publicly stated they have no interest in amending," they said, warning that "a U.S. move to violate or withdraw from the nuclear deal undermines the transatlantic relationship and our alliances of first resort, which are vital across a broad range of policies -- from bedrock economic issues to confronting terrorism." 
 
 Elana Schor contributed reporting ||||| President Trump “still strongly believes this was one of the worst deals of all time,” White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Thursday. (Mark Wilson/Getty Images) 
 
 President Trump on Friday kept alive the Iran nuclear deal he detests by waiving sanctions for the third time, but he said he will not grant another reprieve unless the agreement is amended to permanently block a potential pathway for Iran to build nuclear weapons. 
 
 In conjunction with the waivers, the Treasury Department placed sanctions on 14 people and entities for alleged offenses unrelated to Iran's nuclear industry. The new measures concern human rights abuses and censorship in Iran and the arming of groups throughout the region. 
 
 Trump's decision avoided placing the United States in violation of the commitments it made in the landmark 2015 deal. But he affirmed his willingness to withdraw from it in a few months unless changes are made. 
 
 "Despite my strong inclination, I have not yet withdrawn the United States from the Iran nuclear deal," Trump said in a statement. "Instead, I have outlined two possible paths forward: either fix the deal's disastrous flaws, or the United States will withdraw." 
 
 Critics of the deal deemed the president's decision "an opportunity to do better," as Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, called it. 
 
 But supporters expressed skepticism that the deal will survive in its current form. Trita Parsi, head of the National Iranian American Council, called it a "temporary stay of execution." 
 
 "In a nutshell, he's saying, 'Kill the deal with me, or we'll kill it alone,' " said Robert Malley, who worked on the National Security Council under President Barack Obama. 
 
 Trump blamed Iran for a litany of alleged malign activities, including support for terrorist groups and the "murderous regime" of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, and torture, mass arrests and oppression at home. 
 
 Trump said his strategy for confronting Iran through sanctions and support for Iranian political freedom "stands in stark contrast to the policy and actions of the previous administration." 
 
 "President Obama failed to act as the Iranian people took to the streets in 2009. He turned a blind eye as Iran built and tested dangerous missiles and exported terror. He curried favor with the Iranian regime in order to push through the disastrously flawed Iran nuclear deal," he said. 
 
 [‘He threw a fit’: Trump’s anger over Iran deal forced aides to scramble for a compromise] 
 
 Iranian officials warned that a U.S. withdrawal from the deal would spell its doom. 
 
 Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said on Twitter that "Trump's policy & today's announcement amount to desperate attempts to undermine a solid multilateral agreement." 
 
 "JCPOA is not renegotiable," he said, using an abbreviation for the deal's formal name, the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. "Rather than repeating tired rhetoric, US must bring itself into full compliance — just like Iran." 
 
 As a signatory to the international Non-Proliferation Treaty, Iran has committed to not building nuclear weapons, even after the restrictions on its program lapse, and it is entitled to use nuclear technology for peaceful purposes. 
 
 Trump listed his conditions for legislation that would address future U.S. participation and called on European allies "to join with the United States in fixing significant flaws in the deal, countering Iranian aggression, and supporting the Iranian people." 
 
 "If other nations fail to act during this time, I will terminate our deal with Iran," warned Trump, who will revisit the decision in 120 days. 
 
 Officials said the administration will discuss the changes it is seeking with Europeans but will not talk directly with Iran. 
 
 Sen. Benjamin L. Cardin (Md.), the top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, called Trump's statement an "ultimatum" and said the president is "making negotiations with Europe more difficult by the way he's laying out the conditions." 
 
 All parties to the accord would have to agree to any changes. That is highly unlikely. The Europeans, who consider the deal a great success contributing to their security, have said that Iran's non-nuclear behavior must be addressed separately. 
 
 The changes Trump has demanded include timely inspections of all sites requested by the International Atomic Energy Agency, reflecting a concern that Iran could be conducting nuclear research clandestinely at military sites. 
 
 Trump also wants to terminate the phased expiration dates of various limitations placed on Iran's nuclear program. Sometimes called "sunset provisions," many of them lapse 10 to 15 years in the future. Trump wants them to continue indefinitely so that the United States can rapidly resume sanctions if Iran is ever found to be cheating. 
 
 Rep. Eliot L. Engel (N.Y.), the top Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said the demands are unattainable. 
 
 "The Trump administration's policy announced today sets impossible standards that would ultimately isolate the United States rather than isolating the regime in Tehran," he said. 
 
 "Like it or not, we need to uphold our end of the bargain so that we can hold Iran to its obligations and crack down on the regime's other destabilizing activities." 
 
 Some of the new sanctions announced by the Treasury Department are a response to crackdowns on anti-government protests and blocking access to social media sites. 
 
 The entities sanctioned include Iran's Supreme Council of Cyberspace and its subsidiary, the National Cyberspace Center, which police the Internet, restricting access to websites that challenge the regime. 
 
 The sanctions with the most political repercussions are against the administrative head of Iran's judiciary, Sadegh Amoli Larijani. A hard-line cleric appointed by Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Larijani is a highly influential member of Iran's most powerful political family. His older brother, Ali Larijani, is the speaker of Iran's parliament. 
 
 Iran's judicial system is notoriously repressive, and the country remains one of the world's leading executioners. According to the European Union, which placed its own sanctions on the judiciary chief in 2012, Sadegh Larijani has "personally signed off on numerous death penalty sentences." 
 
 "Naming and shaming Sadegh Larijani is one small way the U.S. can bring its human rights policy and coercive economic strategy against Iran into greater alignment," said Behnam Ben Taleblu, Iran expert at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies in Washington. 
 
 Other sanctions target companies accused of conducting prohibited transactions with Iranian entities. Malaysia-based Green Wave Telecommunications was named for providing U.S. technology to Iranian companies. 
 
 The Treasury Department also listed several Chinese individuals and companies for breaking similar rules to provide materials to Iran that could be used in navigation and weapons systems. Two Iranian companies that build and maintain the nation's military helicopters also are on the list. 
 
 "The designations today politically go to the top of the regime and send a very strong message that the United States is not going to tolerate their continued abuses, continued violations of the rights of their citizens," said an administration official, speaking on the condition of anonymity under rules for briefing reporters. 
 
 Erin Cunningham and Bijan Sabbagh in Istanbul and Karoun Demirjian in Washington contributed to this report.