Source: Multi-News

Nonetheless, the use of a chokehold in subduing a large but unarmed man during a low-level arrest raises for Mr. Bratton the same questions about police training and tactics that he faced 20 years ago, in his first stint as New York City’s police commissioner. 
 
 In 1994, the year after the Police Department banned chokeholds, a man named Anthony Baez died in the Bronx after a police officer put him in a chokehold during a dispute over a touch football game. 
 
 At City Hall on Friday, Mr. Bratton said he did not believe that the use of chokeholds by police officers in New York City was a widespread problem, saying this was his “first exposure” to the issue since returning as police commissioner in January. 
 
 Mayor Bill de Blasio, standing next to Mr. Bratton, said, “Like so many New Yorkers I was very troubled by the video,” referring to a bystander’s recording of the incident, which was posted on the website of The New York Daily News. The two police officers who initially confronted Mr. Garner have been temporarily taken off patrol duty. The police declined to name the officers but said one of them had been on the force for eight years and the other for four years. 
 
 Late Friday, the mayor’s office announced that Mr. de Blasio was postponing his family’s departure on a planned vacation to Italy from Friday evening until Saturday. The postponement was to allow Mr. de Blasio to spend more time making calls to elected officials, community leaders and members of the clergy, and talking to the police, about Mr. Garner’s death, the mayor’s press secretary, Phil Walzak, said. 
 
 The encounter between Mr. Garner and plainclothes officers, from the 120th Precinct, began after the officers accused Mr. Garner of illegally selling cigarettes, an accusation he was familiar with. He had been arrested more than 30 times, often accused of selling loose cigarettes bought outside the state, a common hustle designed to avoid state and city tobacco taxes. In March and again in May, he was arrested on charges of illegally selling cigarettes on the sidewalk. 
 
 For years, Mr. Garner chafed at the scrutiny by the police, which he considered harassment. In 2007, he filed a handwritten complaint in federal court accusing a police officer of conducting a cavity search of him on the street, “digging his fingers in my rectum in the middle of the street” while people passed by. ||||| Photo: New York Daily News 
 
 An unarmed 43-year-old father of six from Staten Island died yesterday after at least five NYPD officers choked and smothered him during an arrest. Eric Garner, who suffered from chronic asthma, diabetes, and sleep apnea, was about six-foot-four, 400 pounds, the Daily News reports, and had a history of arrests for selling untaxed cigarettes. “I’m minding my business,” he says when confronted in the deeply disturbing video shot by a neighbor. “Are you serious? I didn’t do nothin’. What’d I do?” 
 
 “Every time you see me, you’re messing with me. I’m tired of it. This stops today,” says Garner. “Every time you see me, you wanna harass me. I told you last time, please just leave me alone.” 
 
 When the officers move to arrest him, Garner struggles until he’s choked from behind by a man not in uniform, who then pushes Garner’s head into the concrete. “I can’t breathe!” says Garner in a muffled scream. “I can’t breathe!” He repeats it over and over again, at least nine times audibly. Witnesses say the incident started when Garner tried to break up a fight. 
 
 Photo: New York Daily News 
 
 An NYPD spokesperson would only tell the Daily News that Garner “was being placed in custody, went into cardiac arrest and died.” Internal affairs has launched an investigation, with Garner’s wife saying a detective has been in touch. “I’m sorry for your loss,” he said, noting that he was involved “because there is wrongdoing.” That much seems obvious. 
 
 Update: In a very un-Bloomberg move, the mayor has taken to Twitter to acknowledge the incident. 
 
 On behalf of all New Yorkers, I extend my deepest condolences to the family of Eric Garner. — Bill de Blasio (@BilldeBlasio) July 18, 2014 
 
 His full statement: 
 
 On behalf of all New Yorkers, I extend my deepest condolences to the family of Mr. Garner, who died yesterday afternoon while being placed in police custody. We have a responsibility to keep every New Yorker safe, and that includes when individuals are in custody of the NYPD. That is a responsibility that Police Commissioner Bratton and I take very seriously. We are harnessing all resources available to the City to ensure a full and thorough investigation of the circumstances of this tragic incident. The NYPD’s Internal Affairs Bureau is working closely with the Office of the Richmond County District Attorney, which is leading this investigation. 
 
 Update II: At a press conference today, Mayor de Blasio said he was “deeply troubled” after watching the Garner video. 
 
 BdB says it's too early to jump to conclusions. But he promises New Yorkers there will be a complete investigation of the incident. — Michael Howard Saul (@MichaelHwrdSaul) July 18, 2014 
 
 NYPD Commissioner Bill Bratton added that the chokehold “appears” to be in violation of department policies, which can be read here. ||||| (This story was originally published on July 18, 2014) 
 
 A 400-pound asthmatic Staten Island dad died Thursday after a cop put him in a chokehold and other officers appeared to slam his head against the sidewalk, video of the incident shows. 
 
 “I can’t breathe! I can’t breathe!” Eric Garner, 43, repeatedly screamed after at least five NYPD officers took him down in front of a Tompkinsville beauty supply store when he balked at being handcuffed. 
 
 Within moments Garner, a married father of six children with two grandchildren, stopped struggling and appeared to be unconscious as police called paramedics to the scene. An angry crowd gathered, some recording with smartphones. 
 
 “When I kissed my husband this morning, I never thought it would be for the last time,” Garner’s wife, Esaw, told the Daily News. 
 
 She got no details from police until after she had gone to the hospital to identify his body, she said. 
 
 “I saw him with his eyes wide open and I said, ‘Babe, don’t leave me, I need you.’ But he was already gone,” she said. 
 
 A family friend searching for her in the hospital ran into detectives from the NYPD’s Internal Affairs Division. The friend put them on the phone with her, the grieving widow said. 
 
 ERIC GARNER: A YEAR LATER 
 
 She spoke with a Detective Howard, who told her, “I’m sorry for your loss,” she said. He said his office was involved “because there is wrongdoing,” she said. 
 
 Police officials said Garner had a history of arrests for selling untaxed cigarettes. Cops said they observed him selling his wares Thursday on Bay St. and moved in for an arrest. 
 
 Within moments Garner, a married father of six children with two grandchildren, ceased struggling and appeared to become unconscious as police called paramedics to the scene. (New York Daily News) Within moments Garner, a married father of six children with two grandchildren, ceased struggling and appeared to become unconscious as police called paramedics to the scene. (New York Daily News) Within moments Garner, a married father of six children with two grandchildren, ceased struggling and appeared to become unconscious as police called paramedics to the scene. 
 
 An NYPD spokesman would only say the man “was being placed in custody, went into cardiac arrest and died” at Richmond University Medical Center. 
 
 But Esaw Garner and other family members said it was a trumped up claim. 
 
 “They’re covering their asses, he was breaking up a fight. They harassed and harassed my husband until they killed him,” she said. Garner’s family said he didn’t have any cigarettes on him or in his car at the time of his death. 
 
 She said she pleaded with police at the hospital to tell her what happened, but they brushed her off. 
 
 “They wouldn’t tell me anything,” she said. 
 
 An angry crowd gathered, some recording with smartphones. (Ken Murray/NEW YORK DAILY NEWS) 
 
 Officials confirmed that NYPD Internal Affairs officers launched an investigation Thursday night. 
 
 Records show Garner was due in court in October on three Staten Island cases, including charges of pot possession and possession or selling untaxed cigarettes. 
 
 Esaw Garner said her husband was unable to work because he suffered from a host of ailments, including chronic asthma, diabetes and sleep apnea. 
 
 Garner’s mother, Gwen Carr, 65, added, “I want justice.” 
 
 'When I kissed my husband this morning, I never thought it would be for the last time,' Garner’s wife, Esaw Garner, told the Daily News. Esaw Garner holds a photo of her late husband with sons Emery (left) and Eric. (Sam Costanza for New York Daily News) 
 
 Police said Garner was not armed. 
 
 The Staten Island resident was sitting in front of Bay Beauty on Bay St. and Victory Blvd. just before 5 p.m. when two plainclothes cops began questioning him about selling untaxed cigarettes, a video obtained by the Daily News shows. 
 
 Ramsey Orta, 22, shot the shocking footage. (Ken Murray/NEW YORK DAILY NEWS) 
 
 “I didn’t do s---!” the 6-foot-4 Garner, wearing a sweaty T-shirt and khaki shorts, told the officers from the 120th Precinct when they approached him. “I was just minding my own business. 
 
 “Every time you see me you want to mess with me. I’m tired of it. It stops today!” he yelled. 
 
 'He’s the nicest guy. I can’t believe what I saw. That’s no way to do an arrest,' said Douglas, 50, about Garner. Douglas would only give his first name. (acquired by: TOMAS E. GASTON) 
 
 Ramsey Orta, 22, who shot the video, tried to intervene, telling the cops his friend had just broken up a fight between three men and had not been selling cigarettes. 
 
 But when backup uniformed officers arrived, the cops moved in to cuff Garner, the video shows. 
 
 “Don’t touch me, please,” he said. 
 
 Friends of Eric Garner set up a memorial at the spot where he died. (Sam Costanza) The candle memorial reads 'BIG E.' (Sam Costanza) Eric Garner recently attended the circus with friends and family members. (Sam Costanza) Eric Garner and his wife Esaw Garner. (Sam Costanza) 
 
 When Garner refused orders to put his hands behind his back, one of the plainclothes cops, wearing a green T-shirt with a yellow No. 99 on the back, got behind him and put him in a chokehold, the footage shows. 
 
 A struggle ensued as three uniformed officers joined in on the arrest, knocking the man to the ground. 
 
 He screamed, “I can’t breathe!” six times before he went silent and paramedics were called. 
 
 “They jumped him and they were choking him. He was foaming at the mouth,” Orta told The News. “And that’s it, he was done. The cops were saying, ‘No, he’s OK, he’s OK.” He wasn’t OK.” 
 
 “They were choking him. He kept saying, ‘I can’t breathe, I can’t breathe! Get off of me, get off of me!’ and I didn’t hear any more talking after that,” said witness Valencia Griffin, 50, of Staten Island. “He died right there.” 
 
 Another witness, who would only give his first name, Douglas, said he’d known Garner for four years. 
 
 “He’s a very big man, very intimidating, but he’s just a big teddy bear,” said Douglas, 50. “He’s the nicest guy. I can’t believe what I saw. That’s no way to do an arrest.” 
 
 Eric Garner's family including (from left) son Eric, 18, daughter Erica, 24, daughter Emerald, 22, wife Esaw, 46, mother Gwen Carr, 65, and son Emery, 14, are mourning the loss of him. (Sam Costanza for New York Daily News) Eric Garner's sister, MTA bus operator Lisha Flagg, 38, wants justice for Eric Garner's death. (TOMAS E. GASTON) 
 
 At the video’s end, the cop who had choke-held Garner can be seen staring at the camera that was videotaping him. 
 
 “This had nothing to do with the fight, this had something to do with something else,” the cop said, and walked away. 
 
 A law enforcement source said the incident was troubling. 
 
 “A guy is dead in our custody. That is always a potential problem,” the source said. 
 
 With Patrick McCarron and Bill Hutchinson 
 
 UPDATE: The Staten Island district attorney is investigating the shocking death of a 400-pound asthmatic dad after a city cop placed him in a chokehold. 
 
 Eric Garner, 43, died Thursday after a sidewalk takedown by five NYPD officers making an arrest outside a Tompkinsville beauty parlor. 
 
 “My office is working along with the NYPD to do a complete and thorough investigation into the circumstances surrounding Mr. Garner's death,” said District Attorney Daniel M. Donovan Jr. in a Friday statement. 
 
 Click here to read Friday's full story 
 
 rparascandola@nydailynews.com 
 
 On a mobile device? Click here to watch the video. 
 
 Sign up for BREAKING NEWS Emails privacy policy Thanks for subscribing!