Source: Multi-News

HONG KONG — A professor at the University of Hong Kong was charged with murder Wednesday after the body of his wife was found inside a suitcase at his office, the police said. 
 
 The arrest of the professor, whose name was not released by the police, comes as Hong Kong is transfixed by the trial of another professor accused of killing his wife and daughter with a carbon monoxide-filled yoga ball. 
 
 In the latest case, security footage showed the suspect hauling a box apparently with his wife’s remains out of a student dormitory, where he lived as a faculty warden with his wife and children, the police said. 
 
 The professor had filed a missing persons report more than a week ago, saying that his wife had gone missing the morning of Aug. 17 after a family dispute overnight. But the police grew suspicious when they did not find footage of his wife leaving their building. ||||| A member of the University of Hong Kong’s governing council was arrested on Tuesday over the alleged murder of his wife. 
 
 Associate Professor Cheung Kie-chung of the Department of Mechanical Engineering was arrested after police found the decomposing body of his 52-year-old wife at his office. The body was inside a suitcase inside a wooden box. 
 
 Cheung, 53, filed a missing person’s report last Monday evening. The police said Cheung filed the report claiming that he had a family dispute with his wife on August 17 before they slept. He told police he found his wife had gone missing after he awoke. 
 
 Cheung is the warden of the university’s Wei Lun Hall, where he lives with his family including his son and daughter. 
 
 Police said a family dispute over toilet hygiene initially took place between Cheung’s wife and his daughter on the evening of August 16. The daughter then left home. In the early hours of the next day, Cheung’s wife blamed him for not supporting her during the dispute, according to police. The wife then went missing and a missing persons report was filed. 
 
 The daughter then posted missing person’s notice on the streets and online. 
 
 Police conducted an investigation at the halls of residence. On Tuesday morning, Cheung sent an email to the hall’s students to apologise for any anxiety caused among them, explaining that the police were there to investigate a missing person case involving his family. 
 
 The police reviewed security camera footage and discovered that Cheung’s wife did not leave the hall. CCTV cameras also showed Cheung moving a large wooden box measuring around 10 by 20 by 30 inches. 
 
 The police made a surprise inspection at Cheung’s office at Haking Wong Building and found the wooden box, which was made with six wooden plates and assembled with screws and silicone glue. 
 
 The police found a soft suitcase inside the wooden box. Blood was coming out of the suitcase and it had a strong smell. 
 
 The body inside was clothed only with underwear and an electric cord was found around the victim’s neck. Police said it was believed choking could have been the cause of death. The time of death was not known. 
 
 The police said the family was well-off, had disputes occasionally but had no record of domestic violence. 
 
 Cheung was held overnight. ||||| One day after a professor was arrested over a dead body found in his office, the University of Hong Kong welcomed new students to campus with its newly-minted president promising to help them and staff cope with the tragedy. 
 
 Speaking at an inauguration ceremony for first-year students at HKU’s campus in Sai Ying Pun on Wednesday, its president and vice chancellor Zhang Xiang said many students would have heard of the death. 
 
 Without naming the professor, Zhang said: “I’m sure you are as saddened and shocked as I am.” 
 
 Zhang, who took office last month, said the details were uncertain but the university would offer support to all students and staff. 
 
 “Our thoughts are with those who are affected and the university will be providing the necessary assistance to them at this very difficult time,” Zhang said to the more than 1,300 staff and students attending the ceremony at Lee Shau Kee Lecture Centre’s grand hall. 
 
 On Tuesday, it emerged that associate professor Cheung Kie-chung from the department of mechanical engineering had been arrested over the suspected murder of his wife. 
 
 Her decomposing body was found in a suitcase placed in a wooden box in his office at Haking Wong Building on the main campus. 
 
 Investigators suspected his wife was killed in their home at Wei Lun Hall – one of the university’s residential halls – about a four-minute car ride from Cheung’s office. 
 
 Wei Lun Hall is one of the three halls on Sassoon Road. It is a mixed dormitory in a quiet neighbourhood and houses mostly undergraduate students. The hall is particularly popular with medical or nursing students as it is opposite the medical school and its teaching hospital, Queen Mary Hospital. 
 
 Cheung was the warden of the hall, where he lived with his family, including his son and daughter. 
 
 One member of staff said Cheung rarely spoke of his wife or family. “He just brought his wife along once for a staff union dinner,” said the source. “Other than that I barely remember her.” 
 
 The Post learned his daughter, in her mid-20s, had graduated from a British university about two years ago and once worked at HKU. 
 
 During the ceremony, Professor Lung Ying-tai, Hung Leung Hau Ling Distinguished Fellow in Humanities in HKU and guest of honour at the ceremony, also alluded to the event. 
 
 She also called on students, both male and female, to be feminists. 
 
 She said men should realise women’s rights were part of human rights and “something fundamental”. 
 
 “If you are a woman, be a feminist, out of self-protection and self-interest,” she added. “You are protected when you are respected.” 
 
 Lung said respect had to be earned and women could do this by asserting themselves. Being a feminist did not make a woman lose her femininity but instead, made her stronger, she said. 
 
 Lung admitted she had considered omitting a section of her pre-written speech after the tragedy, but instead pressed on, believing it carried a more pertinent message than ever. 
 
 Student union president Davin Wong said the school was providing counselling for Wei Lun Hall residents. 
 
 He urged HKU’s more than 4,000 first-year students to “never settle for rules and norms”. 
 
 “We should be the ones who mould society instead of the other way around,” he said. 
 
 “Our city’s future is at stake, yet I believe it is still in our hands.” 
 
 He also paid tribute to students or alumni including Alex Chow Yong-kang, former union vice-president who was jailed for a few months for his involvement in the pro-democracy Occupy protests; Edward Leung Tin-kei, a pro-independence activist currently behind bars over his involvement in the Mong Kok riot; and Billy Fung Jing-en, former student union president sentenced to community service for his role in a siege of a university council meeting. 
 
 “They have accomplished astonishing achievements in their young age, and of course, I am looking forward to more heroes rising in your generation, our generations,” Wong said. 
 
 He added that as Cheung was the university student union’s honorary treasurer, responsible for its finances, the union’s councillors would hold an emergency meeting on Thursday to discuss next steps. 
 
 He said he was not close to Cheung but found him “a kind and helpful person”. 
 
 Despite the tragedy, the atmosphere in the hall where the ceremony was held was lighthearted with freshmen responding enthusiastically to speakers on stage. 
 
 At Wei Lun Hall, a first-year student who had arrived from India two days earlier to stay at the dormitory said he was not affected by the incident. 
 
 “I don’t think [the case] is a reflection of the university’s professors and it won’t affect what I think of campus safety,” he said. 
 
 In an email to students and staff on Wednesday afternoon, Dr Steven Cannon, executive vice-president for administration and finance listed contact details for counselling services and said the seventh floor of Haking Wong Building would be closed on Wednesday. The office of the department of mechanical engineering would operate on the fifth floor of the same building in the meantime. 
 
 The department’s head, Professor Alfonso Ngan Hing-wan, said he was arranging for other staff members to teach courses assigned to Cheung when the new school year begins next week. ||||| Hong Kong (CNN) A prominent Hong Kong academic was arrested Tuesday on suspicion of murdering his wife and stuffing her body into a suitcase. 
 
 The case comes as the city is already gripped by the bizarre ongoing trial of another university professor, who is accused of killing his wife and daughter with a gas-filled yoga ball. 
 
 At a press conference Tuesday, Hong Kong police superintendent Law Kwok-hoi said a 53-year-old man surnamed Cheung had been arrested on suspicion of murder. 
 
 Local media identified the man as Cheung Kie-chung, an associate professor at the University of Hong Kong (HKU) and member of its governing council. 
 
 "I am sure that you are as saddened and shocked as I am," HKU Vice-Chancellor Xiang Zhang said in an internal email to staff and students that was provided to CNN. 
 
 Read More