Source: Multi-News

LIFESAVER: Va. teen performs CPR to help save life of teammate Local News LIFESAVER: Va. teen performs CPR to help save life of teammate A Manassas father said it is a miracle his son is alive after the teenager went into cardiac arrest at baseball practice, but a fellow teammate of his son certified in CPR is being credited for saving his life. 
 
 - A Manassas father said it is a miracle his son is alive after the teenager went into cardiac arrest at baseball practice, but a fellow teammate of his son certified in CPR is being credited for saving his life. 
 
 Steve Smith was hit in the chest by a baseball on July 14. 
 
 “When I got to Steve, he was just unresponsive,” said Steve’s father and coach, Tim Smith. “His eyes rolled back in his head and I couldn't wake him up. So I yelled, ‘Does anybody know CPR?’” 
 
 There was only one person on the field who did – Steve’s friend and teammate, Paul Dow, who is also a lifeguard. 
 
 “When I realized he had no pulse or heartbeat, that kind of scared me for a while because I knew he was dying,” Paul said. “I felt terrible because I didn't know if he was going to be okay because he did die in my arms.” 
 
 Paul said he continued doing compressions as they waited for paramedics while he relied on his faith in God. 
 
 “There is no way in heck I did that by myself,” he said. 
 
 Steve was flown to a trauma center and his family said what happened next is almost unbelievable – he came to just two days later and was feeling just fine by the third day. 
 
 “When I woke up, one of the first things my dad said was, ‘Paul saved your life,’” Steve said. 
 
 He said he remembers getting ready for baseball practice the day of the accident, but nothing from practice itself. 
 
 “For everyone else, it seemed overwhelming. For me, it felt like a normal day," Steve described on how he felt when he woke up. 
 
 Paul was one of his first visitors. Steve said it was tough to find the right words to thank his friend. 
 
 “I still feel like I couldn't do anything to repay him,” said Steve. “I know I don't need to. He's been here for me and we have been friends and everything, but something like that is kind of hard where someone helps you that much.” 
 
 For his dad, the magnitude of what happened is more clear than for his son. 
 
 “Most people don't live from this accident, “Tim said. “Almost everyone dies from this.” 
 
 He said having Paul there that day was truly a life saver. 
 
 “I was more helpless than I felt probably in my whole life,” he said. “Because here he is, he's dying and I can't help him. To have Paul there to step up, it was incredible. It was something that I'll never forget.” 
 
 Many fire departments offer free CPR classes, including D.C. Fire and EMS. For more information on the Hands on Heart CPR Program, go to fems.dc.gov/page/hands-hearts-cpr-program. There are classes offered this week. ||||| A Virginia baseball player was saved when his teammate administered CPR moments after he was struck in the chest by a baseball. 
 
 The Manassas baseball team was practicing for the Southeast Regional Tournament on July 14 when the catcher threw the ball and hit Steve Smith directly in the chest, according to Steve's father Tim. 
 
 "His heart stopped immediately," Smith said, who is also the team's coach. "When you get struck in the chest and there is about three hundredths of a second in between each heartbeat and basically if you are hit by something in that time, at the right speed, it stops your heart." 
 
 Smith said the whole team ran toward his son as he collapsed on the field. 
 
 "When I got to him he was stiff, like his body was trying to breathe but his eyes were rolled back in his head, and he wasn't responding," Smith recalled. "He was basically gone, I guess. He wouldn't wake up, he wouldn't respond. I was shaking him, trying to get him to take a breath. I yelled, 'Does anyone know CPR?'" 
 
 That's when Paul Dow, 17, came forward and immediately started performing CPR. Meanwhile, a parent on the sidelines called 911. 
 
 Smith said he was "walking around trying to stay calm, but not doing a very good job" as Paul performed CPR on his son. 
 
 Eventually Smith put his son and Paul, who was still performing CPR, in the back of his truck and drove them to the parking lot, where an ambulance arrived soon after. 
 
 EMS workers pulled out a defibrillator and were able to restart Steve's heart. Smith said 12 minutes had lapsed between the time Paul began administering CPR and when emergency workers successfully revived Steve. 
 
 Tim Smith 
 
 Steve was then airlifted to a trauma hospital in Fairfax, where he stayed over the weekend, remaining mostly unconscious. 
 
 Smith said his son woke up on Sunday asking, "What's for breakfast?" and "What am I doing here?" He had no memory of what happened to him. 
 
 "If you look at him you'd never know that anything happened. He has a hole in his neck where they put the tube and a few nicks on his arms but other than that he doesn't have a scratch on his body," Smith said. "It's a miracle." 
 
 Paul, a close friend of the Smiths, learned CPR to become a lifeguard at the local pool. He received his certification just a few months ago. 
 
 Smith said his son's recovery was a miracle. 
 
 "Thanks be to God that Paul was there to give the CPR because there would have been brain damage at the very least if he didn't get air. God has his hand on it the whole way," Smith said." 
 
 He added that another family friend, who is a retired firefighter, was inspired to start a CPR class in the community after Steve's near-death experience. "There is so much good coming out of this, for the little bit of suffering we did, so much good is coming out of it," Smith said. ||||| A Manassas, Virginia, teenager went into cardiac arrest after an unusual play on a baseball diamond in mid-July. His life was saved by the quick actions of a teammate, bringing the two players and friends closer. 
 
 Steve Smith is fortunate to be able to play ping pong with Paul Dow, a friend and baseball teammate who Smith said saved his life. 
 
 "I shouldn't be alive, and I’m just blessed to be here," Smith said. "My body feels like nothing happened. Mentally, seeing everyone, kind of traumatized, it's kind of a crazy thing to experience." 
 
 It was a freak accident at the Manassas Blue and Grey Tournament team practice two weeks ago. Smith was running from second to third base when the catcher threw the ball, accidentally hitting him under the left arm pit. 
 
 The ball hit his heart, causing commotio cordis, a lethal disruption of the heart rhythm. Smith went into cardiac arrest. 
 
 "All I hear is coach Tim Smith say, 'Does anyone know CPR?' I said, 'I know CPR,'" Dow said. "I jump in, did CPR, like, I felt like I was having a spiritual conversation with him as he is sitting there slowly dying." 
 
 Dow recently learned CPR training to become a lifeguard. 
 
 Their coach is Steve Smith’s father. 
 
 "By the time I got to him from home plate to third base, he was non-responsive," Tim Smith said. "Eyes rolled back in his head." 
 
 Dow continued CPR, and moments later, Steve Smith regained consciousness. Medics arrived and airlifted him to the hospital. 
 
 He was in a medically induced coma for three days before he woke up. 
 
 "The chances of someone surviving this is very, very, low," said Tim Smith. "It's just a miracle he's here." 
 
 The actions brought the teammates and friends even closer together. 
 
 "Before the accident, we were friends," Steve Smith said. "Now, we're actually brothers. It's overwhelming."