Source: Multi-News

Students protest the election of Donald Trump as president after walking out of classes from nearby schools, Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, in Seattle. (AP Photo/Elaine Thompson) (Associated Press) 
 
 Students protest the election of Donald Trump as president after walking out of classes from nearby schools, Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, in Seattle. (AP Photo/Elaine Thompson) (Associated Press) 
 
 LOS ANGELES (AP) — Students left high school classrooms by the thousands, carrying their signs and their chanting voices into the streets of several U.S. cities nearly a week after Donald Trump's election. 
 
 They walked out Monday in California, Colorado, Maryland, Washington and other states, many declaring concerns over the president-elect's comments about minorities and the effect he will have on their communities. 
 
 Some of Trump's supporters have called for the demonstrations to stop, including former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, who dismissed the protesters as "spoiled crybabies." 
 
 Trump has accused some of being "professional protesters," although he said in a "60 Minutes" interview broadcast Sunday that he also believes some are afraid for the country's future "because they don't know me." 
 
 Here's a look at some of Monday's protests: 
 
 ___ 
 
 LOS ANGELES 
 
 More than a thousand students from several schools on Los Angeles' heavily Hispanic east side marched out of classes. 
 
 The demonstrations began at Garfield High School, the subject of the 1988 film "Stand and Deliver" focusing on teacher Jaime Escalante's successful college-level math programs. 
 
 Students with signs and slogans headed to nearby Mariachi Plaza. They were joined by hundreds of students from several schools, many shouting, "Say it loud. Say it clear. Immigration, welcome here." 
 
 Some carried signs that read "Deport Trump," while others waved the U.S., Mexican and gay pride flags. Many said they have relatives and friends in the country illegally who they fear will be deported. 
 
 Brian Rodriguez, 16, was born in the U.S. to parents from Mexico and Guatemala. He said he was offended by Trump's criticism of Latinos. 
 
 "It hurt me inside knowing somebody from outside our race is talking bad about us," said Rodriguez, carrying a sign reading, "Brown and Proud." 
 
 Rodriguez said his school's principal opened the gates and told students they could participate. 
 
 Nancy Meza, a community organizer who announced the walkout, said she helped students organize after they reached out to her. 
 
 "It was really out of frustration of students wanting to voice their opinions," Meza said. "And wanting to feel protected." 
 
 ___ 
 
 OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA 
 
 Hundreds of students from a dozen high schools in Oakland skipped classes to demonstrate. 
 
 They called on California cities to remain sanctuaries for people in the country illegally, the San Francisco Chronicle reported. San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee vowed Monday to maintain that status. 
 
 Administrators had hoped students would return to class quickly, but they did not ask them to stop protesting, Oakland Unified School District spokesman John Sasaki said. "We support our students' First Amendment rights," he said. 
 
 ___ 
 
 DENVER 
 
 About 200 middle- and high-school students left two Denver charter schools to march to the state Capitol, where they chanted and held up signs saying, "Millennial voice matters" and "Make peace not war." 
 
 Police and school officials escorted the students along city streets to ensure their safety. 
 
 The protesters called out "Si, se puede" — Spanish for "Yes, we can" — and "The people united will never be divided." 
 
 Noelie Quintero, 17, said they represented Latinos, Muslims, women and others marginalized by Trump. 
 
 "We're not going anywhere — we're going to continue to stand strong," she said. "Even though we're only 16- and 17-year-olds and we can't vote, our voice matters. What we believe matters, and we're not going to stop." 
 
 ___ 
 
 PORTLAND, OREGON 
 
 In a city that has seen large and destructive protests, a few hundred students from several schools walked out of class to gather in the rain near City Hall. 
 
 The group held signs saying "Students for change" and "Love trumps hate." They marched across a bridge, some of them climbing up it, while officers stopped traffic. 
 
 It was peaceful, following smashed windows and other vandalism at recent rallies. Daily demonstrations have led to $1 million in damage and more than 100 arrests. 
 
 A protest organizer says activists were contacting counterparts in New York, Boston, Washington, D.C., and other cities in an effort to stop Trump from prevailing on his issues. 
 
 "Trump is going to be president, so we need to prepare for that," said Greg McKelvey of the group Portland's Resistance. 
 
 McKelvey said they want to ensure local governments fight racial disparities in policing and help address global warming. 
 
 ___ 
 
 SEATTLE 
 
 Thousands of students across Seattle chanted as they marched in the streets and waved "Not My President" or "Love Wins" signs. 
 
 Seattle Public Schools spokesman Luke Duecy reported more than 5,000 students from 20 middle and high schools walked out of classes Monday. 
 
 Some said they oppose Trump's divisive rhetoric and wanted to show support for those he targeted, such as Muslims or immigrants. Others say they came to support their friends or simply to observe. 
 
 High school senior Rose Taylor, who is bisexual, says she worries about what Trump's election will mean for the LGBT community and others. 
 
 Police say two men, who were not students, were arrested in connection with the protest. 
 
 ___ 
 
 SILVER SPRING, MARYLAND 
 
 Hundreds of high school students left campus and took to the streets to declare their opposition to Trump, while hundreds more gathered for a rally at a school football stadium. 
 
 About 800 Montgomery Blair High School students attended the rally at the stadium, and most returned to class afterward, Montgomery County Public Schools spokeswoman Gboyinde Onijala said. 
 
 The ones who left joined students from nearby Northwood High School, making up a gathering that Onijala estimated at 200 to 300, some of them chanting, "Not my president." 
 
 Police Capt. Paul Starks says the protesters were peaceful except for one bottle-throwing incident. No one was hurt. 
 
 ___ 
 
 Associated Press writers Christine Armario in Los Angeles; Andrew Selsky in Portland, Oregon; Phuong Le in Seattle; and Sarah Brumfield in Washington contributed to this story. 
 
 ___ 
 
 This story has been corrected to show Jaime Escalante's name was misspelled Jamie. ||||| Top Donald Trump campaign advisers who have taken charge of the president-elect’s transition team are casting aside much of the work on Cabinet picks that New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie and his aides put in place over several months — and leaving behind a far more chaotic operation dominated by Trump loyalists. 
 
 Trump aides have nixed at least one Christie-backed person being considered for a Cabinet position in the aftermath of last Friday’s shakeup, a person closely tracking the transition told POLITICO. 
 
 Story Continued Below 
 
 The transition team has yet to publicly release a code of ethics for itself or for nominees. And an aide to a person being considered for a top Cabinet position said the person had not yet been asked to complete a detailed questionnaire to suss out red flags. 
 
 Trump was slated to meet Tuesday with Vice President-elect Mike Pence, who now leads the team, to review names in hopes of announcing nominees for key Cabinet posts in the coming weeks. 
 
 "Obviously, Inauguration Day is not getting further away," transition spokesman Jason Miller told reporters waiting in Trump Tower Monday night. "And people need to get going. This is an absolute top priority understood by the president-elect and the vice president-elect.” 
 
 By comparison, President-elect Barack Obama’s transition team was deep into the vetting process by early November 2008 — not just meeting with prospective nominees but also compiling fat dossiers on them, according to emails made public through WikiLeaks. The Obama team also released a code of ethics for transition team members just a few days after the election to limit the influence of special interests. The Trump transition team, meanwhile, is full of lobbyists and has not released such a code. 
 
 “It’s a lot of new people coming in the door. I’m sure their heads are spinning, with security clearances and background checks,” said one transition team source. “They’re going from the footloose and fancy-free world of the campaign into the process of setting up a government. It’s a little different.” 
 
 The demotion of Christie and his top aides — Rich Bagger, Christie’s former chief of staff, and William Palatucci, a former Christie law partner and the transition’s general counsel — sent shock waves through the team’s ranks. 
 
 Bagger and Palatucci worked behind the scenes for months to create a methodical operation that was less drama-filled than the New York-based campaign shop. They played a central role in hiring transition staff, developing an infrastructure, setting up policy- and agency-focused teams and culling shortlists for top administration jobs. 
 
 The shakeup “definitely caused some confusion,” said one person on Trump’s transition team. “There’s been a lot of dust that’s been kicked up.” 
 
 Among those departing is former House Intelligence Chairman Mike Rogers, who said Tuesday that the group’s work “will provide a strong foundation for the new transition team leadership as they move into the post-election phase, which naturally is incorporating the campaign team in New York who drove President-elect Trump to an incredible victory last Tuesday.” 
 
 At one point, members of the transition team even talked with good-government types — some of them Democrats, such as former Obama administration ethics czar Norm Eisen — to think through a code of ethics for the team. “I and others appealed to both sides in this election to put in these tough rules, starting in the transition, because that is where the tone is set,” he said. 
 
 The transition team has not yet made public its internal code of conduct, nor did it respond to a request for comment about it. 
 
 Nonetheless, Trump’s closest aides are meeting with prospective candidates in hopes of announcing nominees for key Cabinet posts in the coming weeks, sources told POLITICO. 
 
 Going forward, sources familiar with the team said they expect the operation to have a more top-down structure, with the president-elect’s closest advisers, such as Pence, Sen. Jeff Sessions, newly named chief of staff Reince Priebus, political strategist Steve Bannon and Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner bulldozing much of the former transition leaders’ existing work and making Cabinet decisions on their own, in consultation with Trump. 
 
 Trump’s aides are focused on recruiting allies and loyalists who they have long hoped to install in top Cabinet posts, such as Sessions, or as Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, a Trump donor and Goldman Sachs veteran. 
 
 One person who has talked to transition officials compared their approach to that of Dick Cheney, who ran George W. Bush’s transition team. 
 
 “Cheney had his own list in his head, and he appointed the people he wanted,” the person said, adding that there are factions within the Trump transition — including Sessions loyalists, Heritage Foundation wonks, Trump’s campaign staff and conservative activists who admire Pence — that are each pushing their preferred candidates. 
 
 The transition team is also working to develop cohesive policies aimed at vetting nominees and protecting against conflicts of interest. Trump’s transition website, greatagain.gov, says candidates for jobs in his administration will be subjected to a full FBI background check and must complete a “Personal Data Statement.” 
 
 The statement includes questions about “possible conflicts of interest deriving from your sources of income; all aspects of your personal and professional life, including organizations to which you belong or once belonged; speeches you may have given and books, articles and editorials you may have written; legal, administrative and regulatory proceedings to which you may have been a party,” according to the website, which urges candidates to disclose “anything that might embarrass the President or you if he should choose you for a position in his administration.” 
 
 If the transition team follows through on that plan, it would subject Cabinet nominees and top White House staff to a greater level of scrutiny than Trump himself received. He was the first presidential candidate in modern history to refuse to release his tax returns, leaving Americans in the dark about his own possible conflicts on financial matters and dealing with foreign governments. 
 
 Past transition teams have generally subjected Cabinet nominees and other top administration officials to a rigorous in-house screening before announcing their nominations — and before nominees face questions from the White House Office of Government Ethics, the Office of Personnel Management and key Senate committees. 
 
 Obama infamously asked Cabinet candidates to complete a seven-page form with 63 separate requests for information. A WikiLeaks email from Nov. 2, 2008 shows the extensive vetting of James Steinberg, which involved a total of nine lawyers and a deep dive into his past. Steinberg later served as deputy secretary of state. 
 
 So far, the Trump transition team does not seem particularly concerned, for instance, about a transition team staffed heavily with lobbyists from energy, agriculture, transportation and banking. 
 
 “Frankly, one of the refreshing parts of it about the whole Trump style is that he does not care about political correctness. From a practical standpoint, I have heard lots of people say, ‘Why would we box ourselves out of the most knowledgeable policy people in the country?’” said one source close to the transition team. 
 
 Donald McGahn II, a partner at the firm Jones Day and Trump’s lawyer, is expected to play a central role in vetting nominees. So is Arthur Culvahouse Jr., a partner at the firm O’Melveny & Myers, who helped vet vice presidential candidates and, according to a source, has been helping the campaign organize its White House picks. 
 
 Culvahouse declined a request for an interview. None of the lawyers in the political law practice at Jones Day returned POLITICO’s calls. Culvahouse has faced backlash from colleagues at his firm for working with Trump, according to people familiar with the situation, with one person saying the decision was “amazingly controversial” within the firm. Many top partners at O’Melveny, including Tom Donilon, were vocal backers of Hillary Clinton. 
 
 ||||| Official: Trump's children have not sought security clearances 
 
 Donald Trump's transition organization refuted a CBS report that the President-elect wants his children to have top-level security clearances. 
 
 A transition official said that Trump has not requested for his children that they be granted this type of clearance, nor did he expect that to occur. 
 
 Story Continued Below 
 
 "That's not something I'm expecting right now," the official said, according to pool reports. 
 
 Earlier, Rep. Adam Kinzinger downplayed the notion that this type of clearance would be a big deal. 
 
 "There's a lot of people, by the way, in the country that have top-secret security clearance — basically anybody that does what I do in the military gets it," Kinzinger (R-Ill.) told CNN's Wolf Blitzer. 
 
 "It's a level that you have to go through some intense background, but that's different than what would be considered basically presidential-level security, and I'm not sure what that's called or that classification. But basically you're exposed to anything the president has, versus just top secret." 
 
 The Illinois lawmaker served three tours of duty in Iraq and two Afghanistan as a pilot serving in Air Force Special Operations and Air Combat Command, among other posts. 
 
 Authors: ||||| WASHINGTON—Former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani is the leading candidate to be President-elect Donald Trump’s nominee for secretary of state, people familiar with the matter said, a move that would elevate a well-known national figure to become the U.S.’s chief diplomat. 
 
 Mr. Trump’s aides have also considered former U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton as a possible candidate, but the close relationship between Messrs. Giuliani and Trump was a major consideration, the people said. 
 
 ... ||||| As President-elect Donald Trump prepares to fight gridlock in Washington, the city he leaves behind should get ready for the real thing. 
 
 The NYPD and the Secret Service are negotiating how to secure Trump Tower, the President-elect’s home and headquarters, with measures that could include shutting down Fifth Ave. 
 
 The two agencies are scheduled to meet Thursday to develop plans to keep troublemakers at bay, according to a police source, who said the Secret Service wants to keep traffic off the busy avenue whenever Trump is in town. 
 
 But top brass in the Police Department have argued that shutting down even a portion of one of the city’s major avenues would be a nightmare that “can’t happen.” 
 
 Obama calls Trump 'pragmatic' in post-election press conference 
 
 Front page of Tuesday's edition of the New York Daily News. (New York Daily News) 
 
 “It’s a negotiation,” the source said. “Their job is to keep the President safe. Our job is to keep the President safe, but also let the people who live and work and visit there have some semblance of normality. It won’t be complete normality, but it’ll be adjusted normality.” 
 
 It was unclear how many blocks of Fifth Ave. would have to be closed to accommodate stepped-up security at the building between 56th and 57th Sts. 
 
 A spokesman for the Secret Service had no comment Monday regarding security or negotiations with the NYPD. 
 
 Protests erupt around the country after Donald Trump is elected president 
 
 The area around Trump Tower has been the epicenter of protests since Trump’s surprise election victory last week. 
 
 Donald Trump may appoint openly gay man as UN ambassador 
 
 The building has been blocked by concrete barriers to keep away protesters and thwart potential car or truck bombs. The glass tower, which opened in 1983, was built before 9/11 and is not fitted to withstand a terror attack. 
 
 The building includes retail, office and residential space. 
 
 President-elect Donald Trump is preparing for gridlock in Washington. (CARLO ALLEGRI/REUTERS) 
 
 The Federal Aviation Administration has already declared a no-fly zone over the Midtown skyscraper until Trump is sworn in Jan. 21. 
 
 The urgency surrounding the security measures was ratcheted up after talk Trump may not spend all of his time at the White House. 
 
 Vladimir Putin congratulates Donald Trump for winning election 
 
 The billionaire may still try to spend much of his time in his $100 million, three-story apartment on the building’s 58th floor. 
 
 Donald Trump's road to the White House as President-elect 
 
 But the Secret Service is reportedly trying to talk him out of it, according to London’s The Telegraph. 
 
 Merchants said all the attention has been bad for business. 
 
 Henri Bendel, the retailer directly across Fifth Ave. from the President-elect’s home, closed at 2 p.m. on Saturday and 3:45 p.m. on Sunday. 
 
 ‘The Simpsons’ on Trump president prediction: 'Being right sucks' 
 
 It was unclear how many blocks of Fifth Ave. would have to be closed to accommodate increased security at Trump Tower. (Susan Watts/New York Daily News) 
 
 It is normally open until 8 p.m. those days. 
 
 The store has also endured fallout from the protests in another way. The theme of the store’s annual holiday window is love — in the form of a “Love Wall” being installed by artist James Goldcrown. Protesters swamped Fifth Ave. on Wednesday as Goldcrown was putting up his love-themed mural. 
 
 The window is officially unveiled Tuesday. 
 
 Congestion on Fifth Ave. around Trump Tower on Monday. (James Keivom/New York Daily News) 
 
 Michael Townsend, 41, of Weehawken, N.J., was in the neighborhood for a job interview. He said the new security measures are “chilling.” 
 
 To Alec Baldwin: America needs your Trump impersonation 
 
 “They don’t want to hear us.” Townsend said. “They don’t want to acknowledge there’s a lot more to America than the people who support Trump. So they’re going to shut this whole place down. 
 
 “I’ve had so many conversations, from people who are afraid, to those being condemned. We need to fight and we need to take a stand." 
 
 Paul Rossen, 54, a comedy club manager selling “NOT MY PRESIDENT” buttons on the corner of Fifth Ave. and 56th St., said he had mixed feelings about the potential lockdown. 
 
 “The first thing they did was a good idea, with the dump trucks surrounding the buildings,” Rossen said. “I think there has to be a balance between incredible risk and being left alone. Airports are a great example. Everyone is getting searched and no one is complaining. 
 
 Dunham on Trump’s call for unity: ‘You have to protect yourself’ 
 
 “I’ve been protesting out here six months, most of it right in front of Trump Tower. All I can say is the balance between free speech and danger must be considered. Three blocks seems like a bit much. If that happens, they’re going to enjoy a lot more protests. I don’t see how that helps anyone.” 
 
 With Joe Dziemianowicz ||||| President Obama held his first news conference since voters sharply rejected his candidate and his party at the polls last week, reassuring people at home and abroad that Donald Trump was committed to governing in a more pragmatic fashion than his harsh campaign style would suggest. 
 
 “He’s going to be the next president and regardless of what experience or assumptions he brought to the office,” said Obama, who met with Trump for the first time last week. “This office has a way of waking you up.” 
 
 Obama faced reporters crammed into the James S. Brady Briefing Room on Monday before leaving Washington for a week-long foreign trip to Greece, Germany and Peru, where he will meet with more than a dozen foreign leaders with their own set of worries about where the United States is headed under its next president. 
 
 At moments the president offered advice to his successor that sometimes sounded like a warning. He urged Trump to respect “those norms that are vital to a functioning democracy,” such as “civility and tolerance and a commitment to reason and facts and analysis.” For months Obama had accused candidate Trump of breaching those norms during a bitter and contentious campaign. 
 
 After last week’s shocking election results, Obama struck a more sanguine note. “I think he’s sincere in wanting to be a successful president and moving this country forward,” Obama said. “I don’t think any president ever comes in saying to himself, ‘I want to figure out how to make people angry or alienate half the country.’ ” 
 
 President Obama said during a news conference Monday that it's "healthy" for the Democratic Party to go through reflection. "When your team loses, everyone gets deflated," Obama said. (The Washington Post) 
 
 The president sought to reassure U.S. allies, noting that in his conversation with Trump last week, the New York businessman “expressed a great interest in maintaining our core strategic relationships,” including the one with NATO. As he visits with world leaders, Obama vowed to let them know “that there is no weakening of resolve” when it comes to America meeting its commitments and defending its allies. 
 
 Throughout the hour-long news conference, Obama sought to calm and reassure a jittery and divided country, choosing his words carefully and emphasizing unity over division. 
 
 On many issues the president conceded that he and Trump continue to have competing visions on where to take the country and that his worries about Trump’s fitness for office and temperament haven’t disappeared. “Of course I have got concerns,” Obama said. 
 
 He sought solace in the notion that change in Washington usually takes time. 
 
 “The federal government and our democracy is not a speedboat. It’s an ocean liner,” Obama said. 
 
 And he expressed hope that on issues such as the Affordable Care Act, the Iran nuclear deal and the Paris Agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, Trump would modify his position. 
 
 “I don’t think he is ideological. I think, ultimately, he is pragmatic,” Obama said. “And that can serve him well as long as he has got good people around him and he has a clear sense of direction.” 
 
 President Obama said that his administration "stands ready" to assist President-elect Donald Trump and his staff as they transition to the White House in January. (Victoria Walker/The Washington Post) 
 
 The president declined to comment on Trump’s highest-profile and most controversial appointment so far — senior counselor and chief strategist Stephen K. Bannon, former chief executive of the conservative website Breitbart News. Bannon is closely associated with the alt-right movement, which white nationalists have embraced. 
 
 “Without copping out, I think it’s fair to say that it would not be appropriate for me to comment on every appointment that the president-elect starts making if I want to be consistent with the notion that we are going to try to facilitate a smooth transition,” Obama said. 
 
 The president declined to answer a question on whether he still saw Trump as unfit to serve in the Oval Office — a criticism he had leveled more than once during the campaign — and instead emphasized that he had counseled the president-elect to reach out to some constituencies that had not supported his bid. 
 
 “It is important to send some signals of unity” to minorities, women and other groups “that were concerned about the tenor of the campaign,” Obama said. 
 
 In a sign of how Obama has been working doggedly to influence Trump to preserve some of his administration’s landmark achievements, the president spoke of the need to improve the Affordable Care Act rather than jettison it. He made a passionate case for not forcing children of undocumented immigrants to leave the country. 
 
 “I will urge the president-elect and the incoming administration to think long and hard before they are endangering the status of what, for all practical purposes, are American kids,” he said. 
 
 Going before the media soon after a major election is a rite of passage for the president. In Obama’s case, only one of these exchanges has been celebratory. While he could embrace his 2012 reelection victory, both the 2010 and 2014 midterms and now the election of his successor have amounted to serious setbacks. 
 
 Six years ago, Obama called the Democrats’ congressional losses a “shellacking”; in 2014, he declined to characterize the results, saying instead to the American people, “I hear you.” 
 
 Obama spent much less time talking about what contributed to Democrats’ latest losses, which were punctuated by disappointing turnout among some minority groups and a poor showing in rural areas and some key suburbs. 
 
 But he acknowledged that Democrats need to engage in “some reflection” about the way they campaign and connect with the American people. 
 
 “I believe that we have better ideas, but I also believe that good ideas don’t matter if people don’t hear them,” he said. “We have to compete everywhere. We have to show up everywhere.” 
 
 Much of the president’s hour-long news conference was dominated by questions of his view of Trump’s character, temperament and fitness for office. Obama offered careful praise for Trump’s ability to galvanize his constituency. 
 
 “What’s clear is that he was able to tap into, yes, the anxieties, but also the enthusiasm of his voters in a way that was impressive,” the president said. He observed that Trump was “impervious to events that might have sunk another candidate. That’s powerful stuff.” 
 
 But Obama cautioned that Trump would not be able to govern as he campaigned: “There are going to be certain elements of his temperament that will not serve him well unless he recognizes them and corrects them.”