Source: Multi-News

BOSTON (WBZ/CNN) - Everybody knows that even very young children can form special friendships. 
 
 But at one preschool in Georgetown, Mam little ones aren't allowed to call each other "best friends." 
 
 The school says the reason is that this language doesn't promote inclusivity. 
 
 Julia Hartwell loves her dolls in arts and crafts and like most four- year-olds, she has a best friend. 
 
 "She said you know so-and-so you're my best buddy. The teacher told her that she couldn't say that there in school,” Julia’s mother, Christine Hartwell, said. 
 
 At Pentucket Workshop Preschool, that's not a term Julie can use to describe her friendship. 
 
 "I think it's ridiculous,” said Christine Hartwell. “Children who are four years old speak from their heart, so they should be able to call kids anything loving.” 
 
 The preschool offered an explanation to Julia's parents, saying "the term ‘best friend’ can lead other children to feel excluded and it can ultimately lead to the formation of cliques and outsiders." 
 
 The school wants to encourage their students to have a wider group of friends. 
 
 "Although I think that words are really important and the term 'best' does have an implied meaning to it, I don't know if the right answer is necessarily denying children the ability to use that term,” said Gregory Young, a pediatric psychologist. 
 
 Christine Hartwell said the chiding has left her daughter confused. 
 
 "Even now she goes to say it in a loving way - 'I'm going to go see my best friend Charlie' or this one or that one - and she looks at me sideways as she's saying it and she's checking in with me to see if that language is okay." 
 
 Christine Hartwell said her daughter will not be going to school the rest of the year. 
 
 The Pentucket Workshop Preschool has not commented. 
 
 Copyright 2018 WBZ via CNN. All rights reserved. ||||| Students attending one preschool in Massachusetts are not allowed to call each other "best friends."Little Julia attends Pentucket Workshop Preschool in Georgetown. Like many 4-year-olds, she loves her dolls, arts and crafts and she has a best friend."She said you know so-and-so, you're my best buddy. The teacher told her that she couldn't say that there in school," Julia's mother, Christine Hartwell, told WBZ-TV."Best friend" is not a term Julia can use at Pentucket Workshop Preschool."I think it's ridiculous. Children who are 4 years old speak from their heart, so they should be able to call kids anything loving - you're my best friend, you're my best pal," Hartwell said.The school explained to Hartwell that "the term best friend can lead other children to feel excluded," and it can "ultimately lead to the formation of cliques and outsiders," and the school encourages "students to have a wider group of friends.""Although I think that words are really important and the term 'best' does have an implied meaning to it. I don't know if the right answer is necessarily denying children the ability to use that term," said Dr. Gregory Young, a pediatric psychologist.Hartwell says Julia still says "best friend" at home, but her daughter seems unsure if the term is appropriate since she was told not to use it at school"Even now she goes to say it in a loving way -- 'I'm going to go see my best friend Charlie' or this one or that one -- and she looks at me sideways as she's saying it, and she's checking in with me to see if that language is OK," Hartwell said.Hartwell says her daughter will not be going to school the rest of the year. Pentucket Workshop Preschool has not responded to a request for comment. ||||| GEORGETOWN, Mass. (AP) — A Massachusetts family is looking for a new preschool for their 4-year-old daughter because her current school has barred use of the term "best friend." 
 
 Christine Hartwell says her daughter, Julia, appeared sad recently when she came home from the Pentucket Workshop Preschool in Georgetown. 
 
 The little girl told her mother she was upset because her teacher told her she couldn't call one of her classmates her "best friend." 
 
 School officials did not comment. But, in a letter to the Hartwells they said, it had been their experience that the use of the term "best friend," even when used in a loving way, can lead some children feeling excluded. 
 
 Hartwell called the ban "outrageous" and "silly." She says children should be allowed to speak from their heart. ||||| Sign of the apocalypse? 
 
 Massachusetts preschool discouraging kids from using the phrase, "best friend."#WBZ @GaryBrodeNewshttps://t.co/3I8N5K4Hq1 — Ryan Kath (@ryankath) April 19, 2018 
 
 Are schools banning kids from saying they have a best friend? 
 
 WBZ-TV in Boston reported on the Pentucket Workshop Preschool in Georgetown, Mass., where the mother of an enrolled 4-year-old said her daughter was discouraged from using the term. 
 
 Christine Hartwell, the mother of 4-year-old Julia, told WBZ that she thought the practice was “ridiculous.” The school, she told the station, said the term can lead to feelings of exclusion and the formation of cliques. 
 
 Pentucket Workshop Preschool is a licensed day-care program serving children who are nearly 3 years old to 5 years old. The day care prides itself on educating its second generation of families, with a faculty possessing a combined 250 years of teaching experience with young children. And it says it emphasizes developing social-emotional skills and independence in kids. 
 
 Hartwell was quoted as saying about her daughter: “Even now, she goes to say it in a loving way, ‘I’m going to see my best friend Charlie’ or this one or that, and she looks at me sideways. She’s checking in with me to see if it’s okay.” 
 
 The school did not immediately respond to a request for comment. 
 
 In January, psychologist Barbara Greenberg wrote a piece in U.S. News & World Report saying: 
 
 I am always fascinated by trends. And I am especially intrigued by the emerging trend among European schools, and now some American schools as well, to ban best friends. 
 
 That’s right. Some schools are attempting to ban the entire concept of children having best friends. 
 
 The article didn’t mention the names of any schools, however. That didn’t stop a rash of media outlets from writing about the piece as if a ban on best friends was becoming common. 
 
 Many schools in the United States urge parents not to exclude their children’s classmates from an outside activity if most students are invited. That’s not the same as discouraging having a best friend or banning the use of the term on campus. 
 
 Greenberg may have been referring to a Sept. 11, 2017, article in the British edition of Marie Claire magazine with this headline: “Prince George won’t be allowed to have a best friend at school.” The story said the private Thomas’s day school in Battersea — the school Prince William’s son attends — encourages students to have a lot of friends, and tells parents to invite all children to birthday parties. 
 
 A 2013 article in the British newspaper the Telegraph reported that there was no official policy at the Battersea school but that its headmaster, Ben Thomas, said there was “sound judgment” behind discouraging children from picking best friends. It quoted him as saying: 
 
 You can get very possessive friendships, and it is much easier if they share friendships and have a wide range of good friends rather than obsessing too much about who their best friend is. I would certainly endorse a policy which says we should have lots of good friends, not a best friend. 
 
 If anybody knows of a school with a policy banning kids from having or talking about having a best friend, please let me know.