Source: Multi-News

ROME — Rudy Guede, the only person serving time for the 2007 Perugia murder of British Erasmus student Meredith Kercher, has spoken publicly outside a court of law for the first time, giving his version of the story. 
 
 In a pre-taped, multi-camera interview in the tailoring classroom of the Viterbo Prison in central Italy, Guede, 29, wearing a gray sweater and glasses, spoke about his life and the murder for which he is now serving 16 years. The Ivory Coast native was a far cry from the scruffy man the press described as a drug pusher and ex-con. In fact, he said he had never tried hard drugs, and his record shows that despite reports to the contrary, he had no previous convictions for any crimes. 
 
 He maintained his innocence, pointed the finger at Seattle native Amanda Knox, and refused to name her Italian boyfriend Raffaele Sollecito. Knox and Sollecito were convicted, acquitted, reconvicted, and definitively acquitted of Kercher’s murder over the course of the last eight years. 
 
 The interview aired on Italy’s prime time Maledette Storie (“Cursed Stories”), which chronicles the country’s most controversial stories to a wide audience on Thursday nights. Guede, speaking polished Italian and presenting an extremely cultured, if not intellectual, image, spoke clearly and concisely about his life, including how, at the age of 5, he was taken from his mother’s arms in the Ivory Coast after his father “reclaimed” him in Italy. 
 
 Images of his prison art projects and the crime scene were interspersed among the long takes of his candid interview. But it would take a true Kercher murder junkie to really separate the wheat from the chaff. 
 
 There are many inconsistencies in his story and what he said during the interrogations that led to his conviction. Guede, who was arrested more than a week after the murder—after he escaped to Germany and after Knox fingered her Congolese nightclub boss, Patrick Lumumba—maintains his innocence. 
 
 Guede described in blushing detail how he had met Kercher a few months before her murder and how, on Halloween, the two shared a kiss on the dance floor of a local nightclub, saying it “isn’t that difficult to get a kiss on the dance floor in a college scene.” He brushed off reports that Kercher’s friends denied such a kiss with what amounted to a wink and a nod, and talked about how dark a nightclub really is. 
 
 He stood by his original story that after that dance-floor kiss, Kercher had invited him over the next night, Nov. 1, 2007, and he happily obliged, arriving at her house after dark. He said she opened the door for him and that they sat in her living room, he drank a juice, and then they engaged in “petting” but stopped short of sex because neither of them had a condom. And, he added, because she had been in other relationships, he wouldn’t go further unprotected. 
 
 When Franca Leosini, the show’s interviewer, pressed him about why, if he had gone there to continue the romance from the night before, he hadn’t taken a prophylactic “just in case,” he shrugged it off. 
 
 Guede then described how Kercher complained to him about her roommate Knox, saying she had stolen her money and how she was a slob. Then, feeling the effects of a spicy kebab he had eaten earlier, he had excused himself to one of the bathrooms in the apartment, where he spent “around 10 or 11 minutes” and listened to two and a half songs, before a scream “louder than the music from my headphones” startled him. That scream, he said, came after Knox, whose voice he recognized—somehow despite his loud music—had come home to confront her roommate. 
 
 Then, he said, he hurried to finish his business and ran out of the bathroom, leaving the toilet famously un-flushed as he raced out to see what happened. There he saw a man, he said. A random man, it would seem, at that. Someone he didn’t know. Someone foreign to him. Someone who, after all these years, he has come to know as part of his own theory, but who remained nameless. He then quoted the court documents that named that man as Raffaele Sollecito, though he refused to do so himself. 
 
 Sollecito, it might be noted, had spent the week prior to the airing of the highly anticipated interview threatening to sue Guede if he was named, in an attempt to stop the show from being broadcast. As it turns out, Sollecito needn’t have worried, since Guede didn’t name him. 
 
 Get The Beast In Your Inbox! Daily Digest Start and finish your day with the top stories from The Daily Beast. Cheat Sheet A speedy, smart summary of all the news you need to know (and nothing you don't). By clicking “Subscribe,” you agree to have read the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy Subscribe Thank You! You are now subscribed to the Daily Digest and Cheat Sheet. We will not share your email with anyone for any reason. 
 
 But Knox, Guede said more than once, was there. “I am 101 percent certain Amanda Knox was there,” he said, before describing how the unnamed man warned Knox that they had “been discovered” and ran out of the building, but not before saying, “black man found, guilty found.” Guede said he knew Knox from flirting with her at the bar where she worked, and he described in detail how they found a connection when he told her he also had a friend from Seattle. 
 
 Then Guede said two things that even the most seasoned Kercher murder watchers may have found surprising. He admitted to going into Kercher’s room after Knox and the unnamed man left with fluffy towels to try to stop the flow of blood from the stab wounds to Kercher’s neck. Then he said he fled the scene out of a combination of fear and paranoia that he conveniently regrets. He went to Germany, he said, but only because that was where the next train was going, adding that he might have just as easily ended up in Russia. 
 
 Then he told Leosini that when he fled, Kercher was completely clothed in “the same clothes she was wearing when she opened the door for me.” But the facts beg an explanation, since Kercher was found semi-nude, with her jeans and underwear in a heap on the floor. Her bra—which was covered with blood splatters, implying she was wearing it when she was stabbed—had been cut from her body and lay in shreds on the floor. 
 
 Sollecito’s DNA was originally found on the tiny metal hook of the clasp of that bra, but that evidence was largely discounted because the cut clasp had been collected some six weeks after the murder took place. “She was dressed when I left,” Guede said, undoubtedly knowing very well the accusation such a statement would imply. 
 
 Guede also said that when he ran out of the house, he left Kercher’s bedroom door open, which, of course, is not how it was found. The morning after the murder, Knox and Sollecito were alone in the house and say Kercher’s door was locked from the inside and had to be broken down. One of the few places where Guede’s DNA and fingerprints were not present in the murder room was on the outside of the door, which was absent of any usable forensic evidence except the fingerprints of Sollecito, who said he tried in vain to open the door. Curious indeed. 
 
 Guede and his interviewer said no money was exchanged for his exclusive interview, and, indeed, it will have no impact whatsoever on the case, which is now officially closed after Knox and Sollecito’s case was thrown out by Italy’s high court in 2015. Guede, who was convicted definitively as one of three assassins, chose not to pursue a retrial after his presumed co-conspirators were let go, as it could have resulted in a new conviction and a longer sentence. 
 
 But no matter, since Guede will be free soon, as well. He has been eligible for work release for almost two years but has chosen to work on his studies in prison instead. Considering he had no prior criminal convictions before his murder conviction and his apparent good behavior in prison, he will most certainly be eligible for parole by 2018. 
 
 The forgotten protagonist in the story, as Leonisi so poignantly pointed out in her interview with Guede, is Kercher, who would have turned 30 on Dec. 28 and whose version of the story, which would clearly be the definitive one, has sadly gone with her to her grave. ||||| The man convicted of murdering the British student Meredith Kercher in Italy has said she was trying to tell him something in the moments before she died and that he is "101 per cent convinced" Amanda Knox was there. 
 
 Rudy Guede - who is currently serving 16 years in jail for the murder of the British student - said he had attempted to write on the walls with her blood to "understand" what she was saying. 
 
 Ms Kercher was found dead in the flat she shared with Amanda Knox in Perugia, Italy in November 2007 having been sexually assaulted and stabbed in the throat. 
 
 Speaking from prison in Viterbo, Italy, the 30-year-old told the Italian broadcaster Rai that the bedroom had been staged to look as a burglar had broken in and a rock had been used to break a window. 
 
 He said he and Ms Kercher had met the following evening at a college nightclub where they had shared a kiss. 
 
 He said he had accepted an invitation to come to her house the following evening but they did not have sex because neither had a condom. 
 
 He claims he left the room to go to the bathroom where he heard a scream and saw a man - who he described as "foreign" - in the house. 
 
 Meredith Kercher was murdered in 2007 
 
 He said: "I am 101 per cent certain Amanda Knox was there". 
 
 Guede then described how the unnamed man had warned Knox they had been "discovered" and ran out of the building before saying "black man found, guilty found". 
 
 He said he then went into Ms Kercher's bedroom and saw "an abundance of blood". 
 
 He said he got a towel from the bathroom to staunch the bleeding from a wound on Ms Kercher’s neck. 
 
 Rudy Guede was convicted of Meredith Kercher's murder in 2008 
 
 He described finding her lying there as a "heartbreaking moment" and said "she was trying to tell me something". 
 
 He said: "I wrote in blood on the wall to understand... fear overwhelmed me." 
 
 Guede - who is originally from the Ivory Coast - said he had then attempted to flee to Germany because he "was afraid they would not believe me". 
 
 In pictures: The trial of Amanda Knox and Raffaele Sollecito 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 show all In pictures: The trial of Amanda Knox and Raffaele Sollecito 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1/14 Amanda Knox 's lawyer arriving for the final verdict Amanda Knox 's lawyer Carlo Dalla Vedova arrives at the Italy's Supreme Court in Rome on March 27, 2015, the day that Knox's verdict was overturned Getty Images 
 
 2/14 Raffaele Sollecito's lawyer before the final verdict Giulia Bongiorno, lawyer of Raffaele Sollecito, delivers comments at the Palazzo di Giustizia courthouse before the last session for the final verdict of the Amanda Knox and Raffaele Sollecito murder retrial Getty Images 
 
 3/14 Amanda Knox on 'Good Morning America' Amanda Knox sits alone before being interviewed on the set of ABC's 'Good Morning America' in New York, 2014 
 
 4/14 Amanda Knox on 'Good Morning America' Amanda Knox wipes her nose with a tissue while making a television appearance in New York, 2014 
 
 5/14 Amanda Knox on 'Good Morning America' Robin Roberts interviews Amanda Knox on ABC's 'Good Morning America' in New York, 2014 
 
 6/14 Raffaele Sollecito leaves the court Raffaele Sollecito leaves the court in Florence, 2014 
 
 7/14 Raffaele Sollecito leaves the court Raffaele Sollecito leaves the court in Florence. Judges in a Florence court gathered to decide whether US Amanda Knox and her Italian ex-boyfriend Raffaele Sollecito are guilty of the 2007 murder of British exchange student Meredith Kercher in Perugia, 2014 
 
 8/14 Kercher's sister, Stephanie Kercher and brother Lyle Kercher Kercher's sister, Stephanie Kercher (L) and brother Lyle Kercher speak during a press conference in Florence, 2014 
 
 9/14 Appeals Court Judge Alessandro Nencini reads out the verdict Appeals Court Judge Alessandro Nencini (C) reads out the verdict for the murder of British student Meredith Kercher in Florence, 2014 
 
 10/14 Layers of Raffaele Sollecito Luca Maori, Giulia Bongiorno and Amanda Knox's lawyer Carlo Della Vedova (L-R) Layers of Raffaele Sollecito Luca Maori, Giulia Bongiorno and Amanda Knox's lawyer Carlo Della Vedova attend the final verdict of the Amanda Knox and Raffaele Sollecito retrial at the Courthouse of Florence of Nuovo Palazzo di Giustizia in Florence, 2014 
 
 11/14 Amanda Knox on NBC News' 'Today' show Amanda Knox speaks to Matt Lauer (L) as she appears on NBC News' 'Today' show in New York, 2013 
 
 12/14 Amanda Knox at a news conference at Sea-Tac International Airport Amanda Knox cries and gestures to friends while her mother Edda Mellas sits next to her during a news conference at Sea-Tac International Airport, Washington after Knox landed there on a flight from Italy, 2011 
 
 13/14 Amanda Knox leaves the court Amanda Knox breaking in tears as she leaves the court after the announce of the verdict of her appeal trial in the Meredith Kercher' murder at Perugia's court, 2011 
 
 14/14 Amanda Knox and Raffaele Sollecito Amanda Knox and Raffaele Sollecito stand outside the rented house where 21-year-old British student Meredith Kercher was found dead in Perugia, 2007 
 
 He said: "When I was found in the house of the crime I fled because I was afraid. 
 
 "No one would believe me. I thought: Negro found guilty. The subsequent investigations, conducted ​​badly, have shown that I was right." 
 
 Police have always maintained that Guede did not act alone and Ms Kercher was killed in a "sex game gone wrong" which also involved Ms Knox and her then boyfriend Rafaelle Sollecito. 
 
 Amanda Knox and her former boyfriend Raffaelle Sollecito (not pictured) were finally acquitted in March 2015 
 
 Ms Knox and Mr Sollecito were initially also convicted of Mr Kercher’s murder in 2009 before being acquitted two years later. 
 
 The acquittal was then dismissed by the Italian Supreme Court in 2013 who ordered a retrial where they were subsequently convicted again. 
 
 A final appeal acquitted them once more in March last year. ||||| ROME — The man convicted of killing a British student in the Amanda Knox case broke his silence Thursday, insisting the American was at the scene of the crime on the night of the murder. 
 
 Rudy Guede, who is serving a 16-year sentence for killing Knox's roommate Meredith Kercher, protested his innocence from an Italian jail in his first television interview. 
 
 Play Facebook 
 
 Twitter 
 
 Embed FROM MARCH 27, 2015: I'm Grateful to Have My Life Back, Knox Says 1:02 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog 
 
 He recounted the events surrounding Kercher’s death in a Perugia apartment in 2007, repeating his claim that he was in the bathroom when the 21-year-old was fatally attacked. 
 
 The 30-year-old insisted he saw Knox, now 28, and another man in the apartment when he rushed to investigate Kercher’s screams. 
 
 Knox, from Seattle, and her then boyfriend Rafaelle Sollecito were put on trial four times for the murder, serving four years in prison through convictions and appeals until they were exonerated last March. 
 
 Amanda Knox and Raffaele Sollecito FILIPPO MONTEFORTE / TIZIANA FAB / AFP - Getty Images 
 
 Prosecutors argued that the pair went to Kercher's apartment and killed her in what began as a sex game, but Knox insists she was at Sollecito’s apartment. 
 
 Guede was convicted after his DNA was found on Kercher’s body and his footprints were in her blood. He fled to Germany in the days after the killing. 
 
 In his interview, which aired Thursday night on Italian television channel RAI 3, he explained in detail how he was making out with Kercher in the apartment when he suddenly had to use the bathroom. 
 
 Rudy Guede gave his first interview to RAI 3. RAI 3 
 
 “While I was doing that I heard the bell ring,” Guede said. “Meredith opened the door, and I heard the voice of Amanda Knox coming into the house. They started arguing. Earlier on Meredith complained about her stealing money, so I didn’t worry too much, and remained in the bathroom.” 
 
 The interviewer asked Guede to confirm that he believed Knox was in the apartment. 
 
 “Yes, I clearly recognized her voice,” he said, adding: “101 percent.” 
 
 He said he remained in the bathroom until he heard “a scream so loud” that it was audible over the music on his iPod. “When I got out the lights were all off apart from Meredith’s bedroom,” he said. “I saw the silhouette of a man in front of her door.” 
 
 He said the man and Knox ran off after they realized there was someone else in the apartment. 
 
 Italian authorities were not immediately available for comment. 
 
 Sollecito said he had no comment to make. "As I have said many times, I do not watch TV. I do not know Guede, nor have I ever met him aside from in court."